WEEK 1

WHAT IS CUSTOMER CENTRICITY ? 

THE EVOLUTION OF MARKETING

Welcome to Sheth marketing academy, this lecture is on customer centric city.
It is the holy grail of marketing, in fact, more companies have tried to be customer centric and have failed in the process, but before we talk about how to organize around customer centricity, I would like to define what it is.
So this lecture is all about, what does it mean to be customer centric organization, and what does it mean to be customer centric marketing?
So let's start the journey.
It is a very natural progression, if you look at the life cycle of successful companies, in the early stages there are all and there should be product driven.
In other words, whatever offering they are making in the marketplace, whether it's patent based product or a trademark secret formula product or it is even a service that we offer or bundle of services that somebody in the intermediary can organize and do.
It doesn't matter whatever it is, you have to be product centric actually, customer needs already understood, there is a market,
there is a demand, it's all about how do you organize and operationally deliver the product offering at a value that the customers like.
So product centric organization is very important in the early stages of the evolution of a company, there you organize around product,
each of the functions, the function of making it, function of procuring it, function of storing it, function of distributing,
function of shipping, function of collecting payments, whatever it is.
But as a product gets more and more commoditized or other companies imitate the product of the pioneering company or the idea even, then you begin to say how do I slow down competition by differentiating myself not as much on the product features, functions, ingredients, but more in fact on segmentation.
So companies usually then tend to segment the market.
If I have this one target segment who is liking, my product is loyal to my product, how do I offer it to another segment?
I mean this is a classic case of model T by Henry Ford which was a product centric, very successful company.
And when everybody wanted to question Henry ford, why don't you offer at least colors of your model T, which came only in black?
His standard answer was, customers can have all the choice of colors so long as it is black, and he was right, contrary to all the criticism we make,
because what was necessary was to build a product of good quality at affordable prices by having functional specialization,
and in the process actually in fact deliver value.
On the other hand, once the automobile industry became a enormous success, and people began to switch from horses and buggies to basically motorized buggies.
General motors came out with the idea of segmentation.
Chevrolet for the working class people, Buick and Pontiac for example, Oldsmobile for the upper socioeconomic classes and Cadillac for the very wealthy classes, and it makes sense.
As it is done in the IT services industry, as it is done in consultancy services, in fact, most of the professional services tend to eventually organize around segments.

THE STATGIC ADVANTAGE OF CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

After segmentation,
which is a disaggregate in of the mass market into segments.
The next evolution is to focus on individual customers, individual accounts.
This is very common in business to business marketing by definition, because you have a handful of customers and especially if you are an O E M supplier.
Where the customer may be only 35 automobile companies, if you are a component maker.
Or the customer, maybe just one customer, if you are a defense supplier, a defense companies such as a Rockwell for example, at one time, Northrop Grumman, Lockheed or Boeing.
But customer centric and customer centricity is becoming commonplace even in the consumer mass market.
Primarily because we are becoming more and more a services driven economy where you have a direct relationship between the producer or
the supplier and the consumer or the user, for example.
What is the strategic advantage of customer centric city?
In the next chart, as you can see, if you plot the revenues, not by product, not by segments, but by accounts.
And you plant it not just randomly or a normal distribution of some sort, but from the highest paying customers to the lowest paying customers.
You always see a curve that comes down which is technically called Pareto law or in marketing, what we call 28 ratio.
20% of your customers concentrate 80% of the revenue we all know this stuff every salesperson understands that.
But if you plant on the same chart your cost curve, how much does it cost to serve the customer and I'm talking about primarily ex factory costs, which means all marketing costs?
Branding costs, selling costs as well as customer support costs that curve is very different.
Usually it is slightly downward sloping, but on the left side is a group of accounts where you are having very high margin,
high profitability, cost of serving is low revenues are high because of economies of scale of marketing.
And as you go to the right side on the chart, you find on the other hand, you are losing money.
The cost is higher than the revenue per account that you are getting for example.
So revenue 28 ratio is even more concentrated like 1090 when you do account by account profitability.
So in segmentation we reduce that kind of an aggregate subsidies that arises across the market, from the mass market.
Now we are able to disaggregate even further at the individual account level and that gives you enormous insight where to invest your marketing dollars
in the future and where to divest your marketing dollars.
By the way while this is a normative chart, this is how the world should look like often in the actual data in the business to business market,
you find your top 57 customers are not your most profitable customers.
Profitable customers are emerging after that and then back again, the profitability declines.
And that is primarily because very large accounts or customers have the negotiating power and usually the supplier company sells people surrender the margins.
But technically if you have economies of scale phenomenon, the curse would look like what I'm showing in the diagram. 

THE 3 DIFFERENT ROLES OF THE CUSTOMER

So let's first of all understand who is a customer.
Lots of definitions are there.
I believe a customer has three different roles.
A customer is a user, a customer is a pair and a customer is a buyer or a selector.
A choice maker.
Each roll seeks a different value from the same offering.
Users want performance value.
Payers want price value and buyers want service value.
Therefore, if you offer a superior product at lower than
competition prices in a customer friendly market, a manner,
you will always win the customer's heart, his wallet, his mind, everything.
In other words, marketing is actually not a rocket science.
The world of customer behavior is very predictable.
Only question is going to be, can you make money at the same time?
And companies have shown that if you work backwards from
a customer perspective of offering a superior product at
lower than competition prices in a customer friendly manner.
How do you then organize yourself?
How do you procure your components, raw materials?
How do you create value so that you are profitable.
In fact, the Japanese have a practice called target costing and
that's what we are all learning how to do it by working backwards.
It is not cost plus pricing but
it is price minus costing as a way of thinking about it.
The three rules of a customer, a user, a pair and
a buyer are usually distinctly separating business to business markets,
especially among the Fortune 500 large companies
because each function is managed by a different department.
So users are the engineers and the factory people.
The buyers are the procurement department and
the pair is the finance department or accounts payable department by and large.
But they are often blurred in small to medium enterprises,
owner managed small businesses.
To me, I've always felt that owner managed small businesses are more like
super residential customers.
So if you plot business customers to residential or consumer customers,
the small medium enterprises, especially owner managed to lean more like and
they behave more like in fact super residential customers.
Role separation and specialization as a buyer,
user payer may happen in small and medium enterprises,
especially when the buyer is separated from the payer and the user,
which means owner has delegated the procurement of daily things like, for
example office supplies to the business manager or a business administrator. 

BECOMING A THE CUSTOMER'S CHOICE

So let's talk about how do you become a customer's choice.
You become the customer's choice by exceeding customer expectations
better than competition, especially about value for
the money and the customer service and the way you offer it.
So it is what you offer and have you offer.
Customer satisfaction which is a core foundation of
marketing is partly psychological and partly real.
Expectations are all psychological, experiences are all real.
Unfortunately, expectations have a very large variance.
In other words, one customer's expectations are so
different than other customers expectations.
And therefore, we need to understand often how to reduce the variance or
how to manage customer expectations, not just exceed customer expectations.
And that's a whole new presentation altogether about shaping customer
expectations, as opposed to exceeding customer expectations.
But we have found over time that as we increase customer satisfaction
through all of these studies,
all of the investment in processes like the quality process, for example,
the procurement process, the delivery process, however you think about it.
Think about the Amazon and the way they delivered your books, for example,
as opposed to the traditional way we delivered.
Think about the 24/7 grocery stores open anything time, any place you want to buy
your daily necessities, all those things we have done.
And in hotel, motel business or hospitality business,
we even now turn down the pillow and all the stuff.
We do all the stuff, we do pretty much, but the more we satisfy the customer.
Unfortunately, customer expectations rise.
I used to travel a lot and I was quite happy at one time if I just
got a clean bed and my reservation was pretty much actually delivered.
But today, if I don't have a turn down bed and two mints on my pillow,
I'm unhappy, think about that.
So customer satisfaction actually has consequences
after the satisfaction that we need to understand.
Meeting customer expectations of the most demanding customers.
This is something every marketer wants to avoid,
because demanding customers are annoying.
Demanding customers, maybe cost causes.
Demanding customers can create unhappiness among employees, all the stuff.
But it says that the more demanding the customer and if you can achieve to
that level of excellence, then you probably have no competition.
We differentiate very well.
This is very much like what we call tough love and our parents can love you.
But if they don't provide a discipline in the values, it's not good for you either.
So it's a tough love approach to managing customers.
As I said, I will not talk about managing customer
expectations which will be a separate lecture.
We will have one of these days.
But this is the basic notion that to become customers choice,
you must exceed their expectations better than competition. 

CEO ADVICE: DOUG SHIPMAN ON THE IMPORTANCE OF CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Doug thank you so much for taking your time to be with us today.
>> Thank you. It's a pleasure. 
>> So you've been senior executive of corporations such as 
the Boston Consulting Group and also nonprofit organizations such
as your current role as CEO and president of the Woodruff Arts Center.
So in your opinion, what is customer centricity and why is it important?
>> Well, customer centricity is really thinking about the experience that 
customer's going to have, not only when they arrive with you or
first start to experience your product or service, but even before that.
What it is that they hear about you, how it is that they think about you make
the decision and then what it is that they experience as they come towards you.
And the issue of customer centricity is whether or
not you think about your product or service from their perspective or
whether you think about it from your perspective.
And so I think that an organization that has customer centricity not only with its
customer facing parts of the organization and service center or its box office and
our case selling tickets.
But it's also thinking about things like parking, things like food and beverage,
things like how you think about the overall marketing approach and whether or
not it's customer centric.
Great organizations really make sure that everything that they do is from that lens
from top to bottom.
And so for us, at a place like the Woodruff Arts Center,
it's making sure that even though we know we're putting on great art,
we have to think about what's happening from the customer's point of view.
>> Thank you. 

ANTICIPATING FUTURE CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS

I want to now talk about marketing.
As you know, we have three different disciplines within marketing and
we somehow blur the boundary by calling them marketing.
You have traditional marketing, which is basically product design,
innovation, packaging, branding, all that stuff.
Maybe segmentation, targeting, positioning,
that's all part of what is called marketing.
But you also have a selling, and
we confuse selling with marketing quite a lot.
And then you have after sale customer support or
customer service as it is called.
And we often confuse whether it's marketing or not actually, right?
Selling and marketing are always confused.
In fact, if you take any mass media and you watch television, or any news,
they often blame, it was a marketing problem yet it was a selling problem.
So I'll tried to define these three different functions by
a framework which is a customer oriented framework.
To me, marketing is all about anticipating future customer expectations.
It is not what customer needs wants today, but
what customer is likely to want need tomorrow.
That means understanding the future, so
marketing has to be primarily future oriented thinking.
And then positioning the company, its offerings, its pricing,
its packaging to our where the customers will be.
This is very much like Wayne Gretzky in ice skating,
he is the person who has scored more goals than anybody at a very young age.
And people always use to ask, what is the skill set,
how can you be such a good ice skater or ice hockey?
The game, the play.
And his answer was that I do not skate to where the puck is,
but I skate to where the puck will be.
So the role of marketing is to steer the organization toward
where the customers are going.
For whatever reason, could be the demographic changes which is
a massive change we all know experience in advanced countries.
Or emerging markets where they're all aspiring and becoming growth oriented.
They all want to buy branded goods as opposed to make it at home, for example.
Are the impact of technology on customers, I mean customers are now so
used to technology, whatever the reason is.
So marketing is all about anticipating future customer expectations.
So, what's selling?
Selling is all about shaping current customers expectations.
Remember we talked about part of the marketing is shaping
customer expectations,
managing customer expectations, which is what salespeople do.
Customers have expectations about delivery, about whatever it is, price.
You negotiate,
you shape the customers as we have seen any salesperson trying to sell new things.
Whether it's over the telephone or whether in fact it's in personal selling
like financial wealth managers where they try to sell the banking services,
the retail stores, anywhere you think it.
What is customer service?
Customer service is all about exceeding customer expectations.
Which means are you responsive,
are you able to solve customers problems after buying the product, for example.
And can you provide assistance during any kind of a crisis or emergency.
Such as when you have a major super storm, for example, an earthquake,
for example, or a disaster of some sort.
What we need to know or understand is how to integrate the three
different competencies into an integrated framework.
And customers seems to be the one around which one can integrate it. 

INTEGRATE MARKETING WITH CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Marketing, selling, and customer service are all value creation activities by companies.
However, to get more efficiency and effectiveness, they need to be aligned and integrated,
which is where often the misalignment or turf wars quite often does not get
you all of the power of marketing.
The best way to integrate these three different activities and functions, something that is pre-selling, which is all marketing, something that is selling, something that is post selling, which is all customer service, is to integrate around customers or around accounts by identifying specific roles, responsibilities, resources, and metrics, the way you measure them, which each marketing function is evaluated on those four, five criteria in the way they deliver value to the customers.
On the next chart, I'll try to break down specific activities.
Marketing's job primarily is to create the offering, the product or service more acceptable, more affordable, more accessible.
The three A's of marketing.
In fact, Coca-Cola was founded just on those three as the mission of marketing.
Marketing mission is to enhance companies acceptability in the marketplace, and there are two dimensions.
Functional acceptability, which means actually you can engineer that into the product, whether it's a recipe, whether is a mechanical product, whether is an electronic device like an iPad or a telephone, whatever it is, or you can create value psychologically.
In other words, consumers relate to the products beyond just its function quite from
their emotionally attached to the products.
Fanatic loyalty arises, such as for iPhone, for example, or Apple in general, there's a cult behavior such as Harley-Davidson,
for example, and that one can be done by marketing through packaging and positioning.
Affordability is the second thing marketing can do.
That is ability to pay, which we have not done as good a job.
Which means, how do you create a low price phenomenon as China has delivered great value by producing good quality products at very low prices, it's unbelievable, but quite often.
As America did 100 years ago when we made Model T so affordable in automobiles, Timex watches so affordable, Kodak camera so affordable that Europeans could not even compete against the Americans.
Same thing has happened with the Japanese, now it is is happening with the Chinese.
How do you produce low priced products and still make money, or you finance it to enhance the ability to pay?
Which again, in the US, we are done a wonderful job by creating a credit institution borrowing power.
Of course, the credit cards now.
Before the credit cards you had the department store cards.
Sears had the largest credit card operations at one time with 50 million households all having a Sears credit or a Sears finance.
Of course before that one, we had housing finance.
We created savings and loans institutions to support buying of a home, which is the largest investment
one makes, just goes on and on.
Insurance companies do the same thing by having premiums paid over time and therefore make it affordable.
Leasing, just can go on.
You can think about the way companies have innovated to make
ability to pay managed by marketing offerings.
Similarly, willingness to pay, which we do quite well,
motivating people to pay by differentiating the product as Apple has again done very well now as other companies have done in the past,
or offering something that is unique. 

UNDERSTANDING CUSTOMER MOTIVATIONS

Needs accessibility, which means availability,
which is location, location, location.
Which today with the mobile tracking technologies and
the mapping and location-based services, this is becoming very key.
And of course convenience, easy to do business with, 24/7,
guarantee if not satisfied, you can return the product, and
all those things that we do is basically accessibility dimension.
What about selling?
The biggest role of selling, whether selling is advertising,
personal selling or promoting in any way, publicity, public relations,
how will you do it is increasing the awareness in the marketplace.
And quite often great products have low awareness.
And awareness means brand awareness or
awareness means product awareness, either one of the two.
So you can increase product awareness, you can increase brand awareness,
tat's the role of this sales organization or selling mission.
The second equally important role of selling is educating the market.
Market needs to be educated quite often, especially in industries
where the competency by the consumers is just not there such as in healthcare for
example or surprisingly in financial services.
So you can have a product education,
you can have a brand education again two dimensions there.
So how does the brand function?
How do you use the brand?
How do you use the product?
Many recipe-oriented like Pillsbury products for example,
like biscuit, well how do you make things out of that one?
It's all know how, it's all skill set that you can educate.
And the third thing the selling organization must do and
they do is motivate, motivate, motivate, people to buy.
But these are three kinds of motivations.
One is, there's an economic motivation, so you can use economic rational thinking,
social motivation to buy, or an emotional motivation to buy.
Once a salesperson understands which motivation works or
a combination, you make yourselves effort accordingly.
What I find most important is that the best selling,
more enduring selling is a purpose-driven selling.
In other words, what is the purpose?
What is the meaning of that consumption by the consumer above and beyond satisfying their functional, social, and emotional needs?
Are we serving the society at large in our consumption?
Are we contributing back to the society?
And if that can be integrated into the selling function, you will always make a sale. 


CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT

The third area of marketing, of course,
is customer support, customer service,
and it has several components.
The first one is responsiveness.
The responsiveness can be
implemented by having expertise.
That's how you are the expert,
like a technician for an automobile for
example or a doctor for example.
How can you help in emergency disaster recovery?
Having a caring attitude,
the most important thing
customer support organization has
to have is caring, compassionate attitude.
Do you have the empathy and listening skill that becomes
very important in the customer service organization.
Second one and my favorite is that,
after consumers buy products,
they are still not so sure,
they want to rationalize they made the right choice.
Somebody has to reinforce that.
They talk to their friends
to get a support for the decision,
such as for example,
I'm engaged and you talk about
that one because you want to have
everybody say you made the right decision.
I bought a new car,
I bought a new house.
People talk about mundane products even
today among friends, social media.
Marketer can do a good job reinforcing after the sale.
Unfortunately, in marketing, we spend more dollars in
pre-sale and sale and not enough in post-sales.
It's called after marketing.
One can reinforce it,
especially for high ticket purchases or
places where consumers lack expertise and
they're gone on some unknown trust factor
and they would like therefore
to be reassured that
the decision they made was the right decision.
A third way customer service organization
can add value is,
value-added offerings, which means after the purchase,
customer has to do things with a product.
Business to business is very obvious.
You have to do maintenance,
you have to install.
But it is true in consumer markets
such as in appliances for example.
Even in grocery products,
what I buy from the store
I've to still open the package,
I've to still undo it,
I've to add some ingredients
before I can serve the family.
You have enormous set of
value-added offerings you can make such as
free delivery, free installation, maintenance.
All those are value-added offerings,
which is a part of customer support organization.
The last one is that, I think it is really
the role of customer service organization,
not the sales organization for retention and loyalty.
Salespeople by their nature,
will be more like hunters.
They want to make a sale and move on to the next sale.
They don't tend to generally nurture
relationships with the same customer after the sale.
That job has to be taken on by somebody in the marketing.
As I said, if you define marketing as pre-selling,
selling is selling,
and then post-selling is
all customer support or retention,
responsibility and retention opportunity
arises lot more with
the customer service organization
than with the customer selling organization.
Of course, that means loyalty programs
and managing those programs like
frequent-flyer programs or future commitments
are basically making such as offering coupons,
offering points, and my favorite is S&H Green Stamps.
Forty, 50 years ago,
that was the first premium coupon
offering where they give you stamps for grocery products.
You lick the stamps and paste it into pages.
Do you know it was a family get-together?
Children got involved, mom got involved,
father got involved and they
redeem to the grocery store the whole book.
I still remember that.
It's absolutely mind-boggling.
Today we do the same thing electronically, essentially. 

CEO ADVICE: DICK ANDERSON ON CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

Hi Mr Anderson.
Thank you so much for taking your time to be here with us today.
>> I'm very glad to be here. 
>> So, you've held several executive positions in both the private sector, for 
example, Bell South and AT and T, and the public sector.
You were the chief operating officer for the Federal Reserve and now you've taken
on the role of senior executive in charge of Georgia's largest county,
which is Fulton County.
So, I understand that Fulton County residents are indicating high levels of
customer satisfaction.
So, what is customer satisfaction?
And how do you measure it?
>> So, I think customer satisfaction is meeting or 
exceeding what the customer expects.
And of course, that can differ depending on, for example,
if you're staying at the Ritz versus you're staying at a Holiday Inn,
you may have different expectations.
Obviously, in our case,
it's very diverse depending on how you interact with Fulton County government.
So, if you're coming into one of our libraries,
which over 12 million people do a year, you've got a certain set of expectations
in terms of materials being available, the environment that they'll be presented in,
the helpfulness of the staff versus if you're one of 600,000 people that visit
our courts, either as a juror or a litigant.
And so, we really have tried to measure those expectations specific to that
environment at a transactional level.
But then we also do an overall survey.
In fact, it's administered by Kennesaw state every year.
And so, we have a statistical sample of folks that say in general,
how do they feel about Fulton County government?
So, then it's almost more of a relationship survey,
meaning it's all of their combined experience that they may have had with
the government in the past year.
And then they give us a rating either satisfied or extremely satisfied.
And we place a target against that of 80% or above.
And that's what triggers then our feeling that we're meeting or
exceeding customer expectations.
>> Great. Thank you so much. 

GIVE THE CUSTOMER MULTIPLE REASONS TO BUY

So let me conclude, most companies evolve over time from
product to segment to customer centric marketing.
A customer is a user, a payer, and a buyer.
Each one seeks a different value, user is looking for
performance value, payer is looking for a price value.
And a buyer is looking for a service value, or a purchase value,
convenience value, delivery, or when can you make it, how can I get it, etc.
So, if you offer a superior product at a lower price in a customer friendly manner,
you will always win the business.
As I talked about, there are two sides to customer perspective,
customer expectations, and customer experiences.
We have focused too much on exceeding customer expectations and
not enough on managing customer expectations.
And I will probably have a separate lecture on how to manage customer or
how to shape customer expectations.
Customer centric marketing is an integral approach,
with which to redefine functions and roles of marketing which is pre-selling,
selling self organization, and post-selling customer support.
And if one can organize around customers, will get a lot more efficiency and
effectiveness out of this great resource called marketing.
The mission of marketing therefore is to anticipate future customer expectations.
How are they are shaped?
They may be shaped by public policy, they may be shaped by technology,
they may be shaped by just demographic changes.
And make companies offerings in the future more acceptable,
more affordable, [COUGH], more accessible than what is done today.
The mission of selling is to enhance customer's awareness of
company's offerings, and to educate and motivate them to buy now.
And the best reason to sell is building a purpose in that consumption.
So the consumer buys more than economic reasons, social reasons,
or emotional reasons.
There's a higher meaning in life, it's like a meaningful consumption,
meaningful purchase, meaningful marketing.
And mission of the customer service is to be responsive,
especially in emergency crisis situation.
As well as to reinforce existing behavior constantly.
Such a simple thing to do, calling up the customer after purchase to say is
everything is okay, 95% of the time, it will be fine.
But getting that call personalizing to say here is my number,
you can call me, here's my name is all very reinforcing.
Even talking to say, let me just analyze for you,
you made the right decision on this attribute, you did very,
very well compared to competition, you made the right choice.
Just psychological reinforcement, we call it cognitive dissonance theory or
rationalization that takes place after decision,
I think it's the role of the customer service.
And ultimately, I believe it is not the selling organization or
the marketing organization.
But it's the customer support organization who should be measured,
given the responsibility, the training,
for customer retention as well as customer loyalty in the future.
Thank you very much. 



WEEK 2

HOW TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY - INTRODUCTION

Welcome to Sheth Marketing Academy.
This lecture is on how to implement customer centricity.
As you know, customer centricity has become almost the obsession of corporations.
But we have more failures than successes.
Especially in a business to business marketing, companies that have gone from product-centric or engineering-centric culture to customer-centric culture have failed.
Examples include Lucent Technologies, it includes the Nortel.
Only a few companies have been able to successfully transform or transition from engineering-driven, a technology-driven company to a customer-driven company.
Obviously, the best example is IBM, which was almost collapsing, turned around by taking customer-centricity and organizing themselves accordingly.
What lessons can we learn from other companies who have made this journey a successful journey?
In many ways, it may sound like such a short journey,
such obvious things to do, like going from the Napa Valley to Silicon Valley, 50, 60 miles apart physically, but those are two different cultures.
In the Napa culture you never do before its time, and you define the time.
In Silicon Valley, you are running harder and harder.
Just as very hard to go from the Napa Valley culture to Silicon Valley culture.
It is equally hard to go from a product-centric company to a customer-centric company by enlarge.
This is the lecture that tries to synthesize the knowledge that we have out there into a framework. 

WHY CUSTOMER CENTRICITY IS A NECESSITY (PART 1)

Before we get into how to implement and what companies have done, why customer centricity is becoming a necessity,
not just a nice thing to do.
During the boom time periods, there is always a demand exceeding the supply, you have no excess capacity, no inventory, and
therefore you can afford to be a product centric company.
So one of the key reasons why customer centricity is becoming a necessity is the great economic recession of 2008 till 2010,
we haven't even recovered fully yet in the US and now Europe is in recession.
Before that, when Japan was in recession other than emerging markets, especially China and to some extent, let's say India or Brazil and
other countries, the world economy is flat, it's just not growing.
That means you have a very intense competition, everybody's trying to get their own share of the piece of the pie rather than growing the total pie.
So economic recession has brought the necessity to be a customer centric organization.
At the same time, competition is expanding, market is not expanding, competition is expanding because not only do we have to compete
with other multinationals from advanced economies.
Such as for example, General Electric, competing with Siemens on the one hand, and maybe Mitsubishi on the other hand, or whatever they are, but
now we see the rise of multinationals from emerging economies.
So in the steel industry, in the aluminum industry, in the auto industry, you see enormously, definitely in the appliance industry, you see enormous competition on a global basis arising from emerging multinationals from emerging economies.
So market is flat, competition is growing. 

WHY CUSTOMER CENTRICITY IS A NECESSITY (PART 2)

The third one is a very unique issue.
Surprisingly, because of the economic recession.
Companies have really reduced capital spending, especially on the R&D.
Just the time when you need innovation to grow the market, we don't have the money.
Government spending on R&D, which is a big actually investor in R&D don't have the budget.
Whether it's the military R&D or it's a civilian R&D or a space like NASA program and space programs every nation that has like European Space Program,
Chinese Space Program, Indian Space Program, there is a huge struggle how to invest into the future technologies and create brand new breakthrough knowledge is just very limited money.
As a percent of the revenue or GDP.
The last one and very important one criterion is that more and more companies are finding, especially in a business to business or industrial marketing, that we need to be selective about customers.
At one time, the norm was that if somebody says I want to be or customer, we welcome them with open arms.
We said welcome.
In ad agency business, we often joke about if the customer says jump, we say how high?
Rather than raising the question, why should I jump even.
I think now companies under tough times as saying, do we have to serve all the customers?
Or can we be more selective and therefore, what is the process of selecting out customers or selecting in customers? 

EXPERT ADVICE: DR. KEN BERNHARDT ON CUSTOMER LOYALTY

Dr. Bernhardt, thank you so much for being with us today.
Happy to do it.
You're Regents' Professor of Marketing Emeritus at Georgia State University?
That's correct.
Also a nationally recognized expert in consumer behavior, marketing research, and strategic planning.
In your opinion, what is the relationship between marketing,  strategy, customer centricity, and consumer loyalty?
Of course, that's a very broad question.
But, you can almost think of it as 1,2,3.
And let's start with three, which is customer loyalty.
Customer loyalty is the outcome of having done the first two really well.
What is loyalty? It's really just what it sounds like.
You have loyal customers who come with you more often, pay more, willing to pay full price, willing to go out of their way to deal with you, willing to tell others about you.
Loyalty is the easiest one to understand of those three.
At the front end would be, of course, your strategy, marketing strategy, which a big part of is first understanding whose needs do you want to satisfy.
Your strategy, yes, you are always talking strategy about product development and new product positioning, and pricing, and distribution, and promotion, but, the starting point for all that has to be, whose needs do we want to satisfy, then you use your marketing tactics to do that.
Step 1 is whose needs, and then the second part of that is beginning to understand the consumer.
Customer centricity is doing that really well and focusing every aspect of the company on meeting the needs of consumers.
In other words, making decisions the way the customer would want you to make them.
If you do, Number 1 right, pick the right target market whose needs you can identify better than anybody else and develop the whole rest of your company to satisfy those needs and pay attention throughout the whole process to the customer and continue to be customer-centric, then you can develop the customer loyalty.
But very few firms do that extremely well.
Some do parts of it well, but if you really want to have true customer loyalty, you better be truly customer-centric throughout everything you do, and you better be focusing on the right customers.
Very good. Thank you very much. 

PROPER ACCOUNTING WITHIN A CUSTOMER CENTRIC COMPANY

So, the key strategic advantage, as I have pointed out in other lectures, is that generally customer selectivity,
customer centricity is very important because the revenue,
per customer and the cost to serve the customers are out of alignment.
So, if you look at the plot where on the X axis, we have plotted from the largest revenue generating account or
a customer to the smallest one on, like heavy users to casual or occasional users, for example, vertical axis is the revenue,
you can see the revenue curve highly exponential or potatoes curve and we call it 2080 ratio.
However, we have just learning to allocate costs around customers.
So, one of the key implementation strategy in a customer centric organization is changing the accounting procedure, or
accounting came from the industrial age, everything was organized around cost accounting from a production manufacturing viewpoint.
Accounting reporting given for financial purposes is the same way.
So here, one has to invent a new accounting procedure such as activity based costing, and allocate the same cost around each account or each customer.
And when you do that kind of an allocation, surprisingly the cost curve does not follow the revenue curve, which says we have a very large customers where we are making no money whatsoever, and we are subsidizing them by a handful of customers where we have a very high margin or high profitability.
If I was a competitor, where do you think I will attack you?
I will definitely attack you, especially in areas where you have the highest profitability, highest margin and very simple tactic I can use,
is to offer a comparable product but at a lower price.
And if your customers on the left side of the chart are primarily traders, middlemen, distributors, it is even an easier sale because
there is no emotion of consumption among the middlemen.
I've done a lot of work with companies, in professional services one of the accounting firms who sell activity based costing to their clients but
never used it themselves, over 4000 clients when we allocated the cost, when they allocated the cost, I was just an advisor.
Law and behold they were profitable in only 400 accounts out of 4000, that means only 10% the rest of them, they were unprofitable,
this was the audit side of the company, and of course they were giving away everything free.
Ad agencies have the same problem, IT services had the same problem, in manufacturing products the same problem.
It goes across all industries, and therefore either one has to do the cost realignment around revenues or one has to have a customer selectivity.
This is a key chart, I know that the actual data when you look at it sometimes the biggest top 45 customers are not as profitable or not profitable.
And that's not because the theory is wrong, but because the sales people usually surrender the profitability or the margin to the customers if they are very powerful big customers, especially OEM supplier, OEM customers where you are a supplier or especially when you're dealing with very large, highly competent, technically savvy industrial buyers.
So it's very important to understand that, it is not the theory, but it is the practice that is in violation of what one should be able to look into this chart. 

WHY IT IS DIFFICULT TO IMPLEMENT CENTRICITY

Why is it so difficult to implement customer centricity?
I tried to analyze this thing and I found that companies which are primarily product centric culture,
which is how most companies begin with all the competition and the growth of competition from emerging economies will tend to
have a cost advantage and therefore a price advantage.
If you continue staying as product-centric, you go downward spiral as a status quo management.
Sometimes you try to manage in the short term by cost reduction as we have seen in the last 2, 3 years after the great economic recession
or we saw the same thing in the 80s after the first energy crisis that the industries were totally restructured.
We invented concepts like re-engineering the corporation, downsizing, right sizing, outsourcing all of those buzzwords we created,
we are implementing the same now after the great economic recession.
Problem is that it's a short-term survival game.
It is not a sustainable long-term unless you do the cost reduction and you want to exit.
Just for example as Firestone did in the 80s in the passenger tire business, where they can survive, shut the factories one after the other got
even a major cost cutter from outside to execute fast and ultimately they ended up selling Firestone to Bridgestone, which is a Japanese tire maker.
Same thing happened in fact to BF Goodrich and Uniroyal they when combined together to survive, couldn't survive and ultimately ended
up selling to Michelin, for example.
In the 80s, we saw so much of restructuring.
Private equities came in because the only people who want to buy immediately are the private equity people.
If you have not done your cost reduction, they know how to do it and then they sell the company.
Private equity is back again just like in the 80s, in a very big way, because the world is stagnating and costs are still constant.
Cost reduction is a short-term survival strategy but if you really wanted to sustain and wanted to grow the business,
customer centric culture becomes very key.
Sounds obvious.
You can get more out of an existing customer than acquire a new customer.
It's very possible because an oil well where you have successfully drilled oil is always having more oil than try to figure
out a new and exploring new oil well.
I know in gift-giving, in donations, this is a cardinal rule about going after the same donors again and again rather
than trying to get a new donor the same thinking around here.
Such an obvious thing to go from a product centric to a customer centric culture.
Why it is not done?
The problem is that we get five major constraints that come in.
The culture is mindset is all about product, product, product technology, technology, technology and the changing that processes,
systems, the way we are organized, usually we are organized around products P and L or profit and loss, and often the policy regulation that comes in the way.
The role of management is transformative change and that can only happen with a strong intervention by management to reorganize the company from
a product-centric to a customer-centric. 

#1 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

there are nine different initiatives
have identified and I can put them together.
It is in a pie chart as you can see the first and the most critical my view
is that appoint a chief customer officer not a chief marketing officer
because that word marketing means you're going to be a self support in a.
B two B. Environment.
And marketing means you will be a brand manager in the consumer
market the same old same old stuff.
They had to create a new label new language called chief customer officer.
Chief customer officer is a staff function at a corporate level.
If it's a conglomerate then at a group corporate level very
similar to HR function very similar to finance function.
And of course more recently the I.
T. Function the chief customer officer
reports or must report directly to the CEO.
That's another very key responsibility and he or she should be responsible for
all key accounts which means all customer accounts are into two categories.
Those which are key account where you have dedicated resources, you commit and
those which are pretty much transactional driven and
could be served through intermediaries like distributors dealers, whatever it is.
Key accounts have to be at a corporate level because you have so
many different product lines that you can all offer to the same account.
I remember at three a.m.
Company which is very much a product centric divisions when they put this
corporate responsibility of key account management.
The largest account that came was I think general services administration G.
S. A.
Of the government and they bought thousands of products from different
divisions and nobody in the audience knew who was their largest single
customer because they thought about product orientation fascinating.
So this is to create a customer centric culture.
We brought the CEO of the company and say I'm your largest customer.
Do you know who I am?
Who I am?
Like a mystery guest or a mystery shopper.
Same thing happened at Proctor and Gamble product centric organization.
Out of nowhere, Walmart had become the largest customer.
And Walmart was not happy because each product centric organization or
a division such as the detergent division, the coffee division,
whatever, the cell had their own processes, had their own culture,
had their own systems, had their own building collection delivery and
of course they were incompatible with what Walmart wanted.
So you can create and this chief customer officer should be in charge
of global branding of the company or the products.
Even for that matter.
And marketing, it is analog positioned to a brand management function
except it's a corporate staff function as opposed to a line function by and large 

#2 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Second my recommendation is to create
a Customer Centric Cross Functional Alignment.
All the functions to run a business,
generally are organized around the product.
So in a typical supplier customer relationship,
sales people are in charge of the customers and not anybody else.
Customer support are in charge of the users after the sale if the company
has any problem, such as IT services at my university for example.
If I have has user problem, I go to my IT Department who calls up the vendor and
says, we are having problem with your hardware, software or
if it is a data's company like SAS.
Which mines data for example, a large scale data,
that then they call them up to fix the problem.
So the supplier has a sales knowledge about the customer or
the procurement knowledge, and the service department has the user knowledge, but
they don't connect.
And there are lots of other functions like the legal function, the HR function,
the IT function, which are in the sideline sitting in the back.
The idea is that rather that bow tie of the connectivity,
if you want to be customer centric you must reverse that bow tie.
The first one looks like, when you want to close the elevator doors.
Remember you press that button, which says you're closing it.
Second one says you're opening the door which is a very key one.
So what you do is you reorganize,
where all of the functions are organized around in account,
and customer must also reorganize their support functions,
their functions into an alignment.
So you can see IT Department of the supplier company begins to
directly work with the IT Department of the customer company.
Because IT to IT you have to relate.
The finance department, the legal department, etc.
You can read the whole laundry list.
And then the role in the middle is there of an account manager,
the key account manager is one of coordination to coordinate all of
the functional resources dedicated to that particular account.
This is a very key approach to aligning the functions so
that we have less friction within the organization. 

#3 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

The third major recommendation for companies to make this transition
successfully has been having the deployment of IT technology.
Most companies unfortunately remain very legacy in their computerization.
How do you create what I call a connected enterprise?
That means go from a functional silos to an integrated organization,
and go from a time silo to more and more online, and today with definitely the Internet-based,
web-based applications, things are all more and more online.
We say you can connect with the customer on  a 24/7 bases for everything you do. That is necessary.
Traditional enterprise usually has functional silos and time silos,
geography silos by the territory, this is the silos are all gone because IT as
an enabler is able to reduce that and create a connected enterprise.
Everybody knows at the same time what is happening.
How does the evolution take place?
From an IT perspective, I have some older paper that I found the framework most useful.
You need to do two things.
One is you need to automate, and you too integrate.
Most companies began automating in the 80s the back-office operations.
All internal integration cross-functional by  putting into the business what that we call ERP systems,
enterprise resource planning systems.
There are so many ERP systems.
Of course, SAP is one of the better known ones.
But you have the Oracle system, then you have the IBM Systems, whatever they are.
Then typically the CIO would recommend that you integrate now your suppliers because you have the power over
suppliers to say your architecture has to be the same as mine as Walmart insisted among
all their vendors that yours IT must be compatible with our IT.
That is happening. Cisco Systems has done the other way around where they have made their organization
compatible with their customers.
Most of the orders come online, as does for Dale, as does for many companies now.
Amazon is a classic case where everything is only online ordering and then everything workflows.
Supply chain becomes very key, so you have a supply chain management automation and integration.
Then you go toward the customer-facing side, which is called CRM systems.
Then ultimately everything is connected both outside and inside with the customer especially,
and we call it as e-commerce or e-business by and large.
I think most companies underestimate how much investment they will have to continuously make in IT support within the organization.
Massive, it's not just the capital dollars, but also upgrade, maintenance dollars.
I have seen most companies underestimate the amount of money they need to allocate.
They think about allocating dollars for capital dollars into factories.
But today, in the airline business or in financial services like brokerage business,
you can't even survive without the IT doing integrating everything, all the transactions and everything. 

#4 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Next recommendation to create a customer centric culture or organization,
or to implement customer centricity is demand driven operations.
IT, if you organize well should now say rather than a product and a supply driven processors, everything works with the order that comes in.
And as I mentioned Dell computers, Cisco systems, Amazon I mean today everybody, airlines, everything begins when the customer places the order.
And everything is now supply chain in the back pretty much.
So demand driven supply chain is a very key concept, which means marketing is really reverse marketing now.
And marketing means managing supply chain efficiently.
Requires therefore partnering with your key supplier.
Whether those are logistics suppliers or manufacturing suppliers, whoever they are raw material component suppliers,
requires also partnering with channels if you have channels in the middle.
And learning from services industries, especially from airlines and online retailing, is an ideal thing to do.
So for example, Amazon, Delta Air Lines.
These are pretty good examples from services sector that are manufacturing company or a product company can emulate. 

#5 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

The next recommendation is to create a dual profit and loss accounting because historically we are organized and from a stock market viewpoint we are responsible to still deliver product centric profitability accounting.
What one has to do is to put a matrix now for managerial purposes while we have publicly reported accounting or financial accounting is done around products, but one can also create a customer by customer profitability analysis and of course you have all the key accounts where you have the information but it's the mindset that's very important.
This dual PNL to say chief customer officer is also a PNL responsibility.
As I mentioned closer to the brand management where he or she may not have too many people reporting to him but with the budget of each account, he can or she can actually gain resources within the company from different functions into a dedicated team to focus on an account.
I'm in a tractor and gamble.
This is done for Walmart for example and I'm told they have more than 300 full time employees, totally dedicated to Walmart account.
They actually work and live with Walmart facilities by and large.
And now Walmart also has committed to its key strategic supplier called Procter and Gamble maybe about 100 and 50 full time employees who are all at PNG facilities by and large.
It's like a virtual integration as I will talk about later on.
So dual piano accounting is a second and I would say probably one of the most critical areas. 

#6 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Next recommendation is to
become a capability organization.
This is to really overshadow the product centric viewpoint.
Which means it is not what you make, but what your capabilities are.
It is not the end terminal product, but it is the black-box competencies, capabilities.
There's a huge value in terms of getting revenues and margins, etc, if you think from that viewpoint, because if you made a product, let's say you made a transformer, you make an engine for the aircraft.
You have lots of knowledge how the engine, the transformer will work after it's installed.
Of course, if you are a market leader, a legacy company like a Caterpillar, for example, or a company like Siemens, for example, doesn't make any difference.
The biggest opportunity is your install base, not new sales.
New sales maybe 5,10 percent.
Installed base is 80, 90 percent and there's a lot of opportunity for downstream in revenues.
In printers, it is not the printers, but the usage of cartridge and you understand therefore, cartridge business and you supply cartridge.
We have done lot of work in this area so it's very obvious when you think through.
Also at the same time, to make a demand-driven one needs to innovate in the core product.
We all know about disruptive competition, disruptive innovation, for example.
How do you create yourself a migration strategy where you migrate the customer from the current installed base to the newer technology?
IBM has done a wonderful job over the years called Migration Strategy.
The defense contractors have done quite a lot, for example in one generation of aircrafts to next-generation of aircrafts for the military.
Same thing happens with the civilian passenger airlines.
For example, the latest one by Boeing is a Dreamliner called 787.
The way they manufacture, the way the airlines will have to actually deploy that.
All that is brand new innovation in your core product.
Third area is solution capability, which means that if I cannot do everything, if I have a solution mindset, by putting yourself in the customer's shoes, I can source other elements that I don't want to make.
My job is integrating.
I'm like a general contractor.
I don't have to be a plumber and electrician and all this stuff.
I can hire them, but my job is to put it together.
That's basically a solution capability.
The last one is and one that is becoming more popular is that rather than selling capital goods,
which has all the debates about capital dollar allocation on the tough times and therefore customer is postponing the purchase.
He wants to still keep the old factory going because he has no money to revitalize or invest or whatever it is.
One thinks about what is called the annuity model of revenue.
IT companies, computer companies, server companies have figured out, rather than sell, we can just rent it on a monthly basis.
Utility model as it is called, or it is basically called selling software as a service, for example.
There are bunch of buzz words that we have used.
IT as a utility like electricity, like gas, like telephone, is a very key concept in terms of creating that. 

#7 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Next, and this is my favorite.
We talked about customer selectivity, remember.
One of the key concepts there is, what do you do about customers who are non-profitable and you don't want to serve them?
The standard thinking is that you fire the customer.
There are lots of books and articles about firing the customer.
But it's not that easy.
Often, there are regulatory barriers in banking business, in public utility companies, you cannot fire the customer.
Also, it creates pretty negative image when you fire customers, public opinion is against you.
In some industries I have seen the customer say your brand, your product is my livelihood.
If you don't serve me, you destroy my livelihood so I'm going to go to courts, and I will have a litigation against you.
You have to serve me whether you make money or not.
Interesting logic. Those kinds of things which says there is an option other than firing the customers,
which is what I believe very strongly is outsourcing the customers.
Which means you systematically take a group of customers and give to a third party who is able to serve and still make money.
Just like we do outsourcing of HR functions, outsourcing in fact of for example IT services, outsourcing of some marketing functions,
such as market research, e.g.
advertising agencies is an outsourced function.
One can think about that one to say, neglecting non-profitable customers what are usually called C accounts.
A, B, C, C account is worse than outsourcing them.
Our sourcing non-profitable customers is a win-win-win between knew the customer because his sword better by somebody else, then by you.
Of course, the third party.
Outsourcing non-profitable customers also then enables to release your captive resources to deploy for further growth IT into existing bigger accounts,
or invest into newer accounts, for example. 

#8 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Next one is something we worked at Emory University in our research alignment in the center for relationship marketing with Procter and Gamble and Walmart.
The idea was that really and this is an old idea by Dupont that as a Dupont as a supplier, if they can put in the shoes of general mortars who buys their paint and chemicals that what will make general motors business grow and therefore we become better suppliers in the tire business that supplied Nylon for
example, just goes on and Dupont is an industrial company but they had the most research on consumers.
So it is your customers customers customers thinking depending upon value chain, ultimate consumers.
So Dupont just to do research on households and figure out what is it that the households are looking for homemakers in their buying behavior and use that knowledge to say to their own customer, why they can provide in a partnership a better solution for emerging needs.
Remember marketing is all about anticipating future customer needs wants resources and that's what they do.
So customer business development is a very different skill set than the traditional selling and marketing.
So what we find is that we have capabilities but those are capabilities of yesterday product centric, how do we create a customer centric capabilities which is a customer business development which says the role of the salesperson is to really understand what happens to your product that you have sold in the customer environment.
And if the customer is a reseller in some fashion, then what how value it is creating to the end customer and customer could be internal or it could be an external and customer right it means understanding customers strategic plans also and more and more now customers with their ski strategic suppliers are willing to share their long term plans, five year plans, three year plans strategic plans which means you can deploy resources on a longer cycle mentally by being customer centric organization.
It also requires collaborative mindset with customers and this is the biggest challenge.
I find companies just don't have the skill set for collaboration because the D N A Is competition and once you have a competition based D N A.
It is very hard to change your D N A.
That trusting others working with others creating value together, sharing in the value that we create is better model than fighting for my piece of the pie or even crumbs of the pie.
In other words non zero sum as opposed to a zero sum game that one place, it needs strong financial and operational expertise.
This is not an easy thing to implement as Fedex has done with its key accounts by building a mini warehouses for them in Memphis which is they're having place.
So you don't have to take the product from Seattle by Boeing for apart bring it to Memphis every day, you just have an inventory and you say to the customer, I will manage your inventory.
It is such a preemptive way of doing things that competition cannot even duplicate that.
So Fedex has had a huge competitive advantage by thinking from a customer business development.
Either customer cost reduction, customer growth, whatever it is, and customer is the person that you sell to.
It also requires transforming the sales culture of the organization.
And I find this is the most difficult part.
As I said, sales people are organized much more hunter mentality as it is called in the sales literature.
How do we create farming mentality where you nurture, you understand the soil, you understand the climate, you know when to plant, when to harvest, so you have a renewable orders, renewable crops coming in again.
Again, that mindset is very different and very difficult to implement, but it is necessary. 

#9 OF THE NINE INITIATIVES TO IMPLEMENT CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Next area is joint venturing with customers.
I coined this phrase, we are phrased like partnering with customers, relationship management, and all that.
But I like the word joint venture, either virtual or contractual because in a joint venture,
both parties have to commit.
Whereas in a typical Key Account Management, the supplier put all the resources behind the customer and the customer can walk away.
Where is the customer commitment?
It is like making a breakfast of eggs and bacon.
Chicken just lays an egg.
That it's contribution.
But the pig has to commit.
How do you get the commitment from the customer when you are investing enormously in that customer?
Is a very key thing that happens only by thinking and educating and selling the concept of joint venturing with a customer.
Whirlpool has done that very well with Sears can more brand of appliances.
I think it's a 70 or 75-year-old relationship, still intact.
Open books on both sides, fascinating.
More recently in the last 20-25 years, Walmart and Procter and Gamble relationship is almost like a joint venture.
Joint venturing allows a co-creation of value for end-users.
Ultimate game is that why are we partnering together?
To remove all the friction in the marketplace and create value for the ultimate customers wherever they are.
Customer mindset, as I talked about, whether those are internal users or external customers such as a manufacturer with a retailer,
and manufacturer with a distributor in industrial markets, etc.
Strategic partnering for CSR is the next area.
In other words, there are common causes out there such as sustainability,
such as, for example, environmental degradation, such as, for example, encouraging people to be socially responsible or contributing to what a social well-being, what is called the triple bottom line, profit planet and people.
Lots of CSR or Corporate Social Responsibility movements are done but here it says you partner with your customers and suppliers, which is very interesting for global sustainability initiatives or community initiatives. 

CEO ADVICE: WILLIAM  PATE ON THE ROLE OF THE CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER

Mr. Pate, thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you so much for having me.
Over the past 20 years, how has the role of the Chief Marketing Officer changed in your opinion?
Well, I think in one way it's much more integrated into the business.
Today you not only need to understand marketing, you need to understand finance,
and you need to understand the important role that marketing plays,
particularly in public companies and driving shareholder value.
It's much more data-driven.
We have more information about customers than we've ever had before.
You've got to do a lot of research to understand, not only what they want to
buy and the price they want to pay, but how they want it delivered, how they want it packaged.
All this comes together in a way that is much different than it was 20 years ago when really what we focused on is
great ad campaigns and trying to come up with great products.
Today customers are interested in how the product's going to be delivered,
is it relevant to their life.
Marketing officers have to be data junkies, I believe, to really be able to get that customer centricity into their program.
Very good. Thank you. 

SEVEN ISSUES IMPLEMENTING CUSTOMER CENTRICITY (part 1)

All of this sounds very obvious after the fact.
It's like an "Aha. Sure, it makes sense."
As companies have tried to implement, they've encountered a bunch of challenges.
The next chart talks about what are the issues have you tried to implement customer centric culture you are likely to encounter.
The first and the key one is that who owns the relationship?
Salespeople are very territorial.
How do you therefore organized where salespeople are willing to have a shared ownership of the customer?
Not easy at all.
I have learned this quite a lot by advising and practicing in companies who owns the customer is a major debate and has to be resolved usually from top-down.
As I said, key accounts are to be corporate responsibility, not salespeople.
Salespeople can do the non key account side pretty much. 
Whether it's a staff function or a line function becomes a debate.
Often the challenge is internal poor marketing.
In transforming a product centric culture to a customer centric culture, it requires a lot of internal selling, internal education, internal marketing, and most companies just don't take from that viewpoint.
Second major challenge is internal marketing.
Third one is ability to hard wire the customer, which basically means customer as resource commitment and there are switching costs they cannot get out too quickly.
Whether those are IT platforms which is the best hard wiring I've seen, or those are payment platforms, or those are basically management teams on both sides, it's like a joint venture.
That's a key one. This requires a new way of measuring things.
So we need to create new metrics, the traditional accounting metrics or the traditional performance metrics are not enough.
It is quite often a challenge to get all the suppliers in line in terms of this reverse marketing, where you have a demand-driven operations.
You are wanting to have a customer-centric culture, but your suppliers are unable or unwilling to align accordingly.
That's another challenge I have.
Of course, if your customers are global, which is happening more and more, it is even worse.
Because to put a global footprint, you have to be present globally.
This is where many organizations just run out of capability to have a global presence.
Except the customer may need and demand a global account management.
General Electric has done that quite often with their suppliers.
Walmart may do the same thing with companies like Procter & Gamble to say, we are in China, why don't you show up in China?
We have found the same thing between Coca-Cola and McDonald's, which is again one of the best relationship over what, 40, 45 years easily.
It is the largest account of Coca-Cola.
It's called the fountain side of the business, where if McDonald's is putting new locations in China, or in India, or in Africa, you got to be there.
That requires enormous resource, redeployment in some fashion or adding deployment.

SEVEN ISSUES IMPLEMENTING CUSTOMER CENTRICITY (part 2)

The last one and a very interesting one, which I have not done research yet, but I know it is an issue is that when you have this kind
of a lock-in between a customer and you, are you reducing competition and therefore, is antitrust going to come and watch you?
Because anti-trust role is making sure competition is thriving and there is no collusion of any kind but this is not a collusion among competitors by surprise fixing but this is a collusion or a collaboration between you and the customer, but it stops competition.
It's one of those very interested in what is right to do runs into policies, issues, either change the policy by lobbying, etc.
Or you have to somehow learn how to manage within that policy. So let's conclude.
Customer centricity is increasingly becoming a necessity for a company's survival and growth.
It's not just growth, which is how the focus has been, but it is for survival.
As IBM under Lou Gerstner, coming from outside, transform the company for survival.
Creating a customer-centric organization requires a transformation, it's not a minor change.
Almost nonlinear transformation leadership in changing the company's culture, processes, systems, and policy.
The best way to implement customer centricity is to appoint a chief customer officer and reporting directly to the chairman and the CEO.
He or she should be as important as the CFO in the organization or the chief human resource organization.
A team of five people is necessary with chief customer officer, chief Information Technology Officer, or CIO as it is called, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resource, all work collectively together under the leadership of a CEO.
Without that architecture, I don't think one can implement successfully a customer-centric strategy or a customer-centric culture.
It will also require investing in IT systems, as I mentioned earlier, creating a dual P&L accounting system, a managerial accounting system, and a customer-centric cross-functional alignment.
Finally, it will require demand-driven operations.
A joint venturing mindset for creating value or co-creating value for end-users, and maybe partnering for these CSR or public-private initiatives.
Some companies are really, really good at that stuff.
When I understand what they do and I become knowledgeable, I become very appreciate you how much dedicated they are in terms of creating a public-private partnership in a consortium of some sort.
I think it's a great, great thing to do.
The biggest challenge, however, are all internal turf wars.
In the book that I wrote called Self-Destructive Habits of Good Companies and the original title was supposed to be The Seven Bad Habits of Good Companies, I found one of the key reasons why successful companies do not survive in the long run is because there are a lot of internal turf wars.
Their ability to adapt, willingness to change just doesn't happen because of the turf wars.
So it will be require a strong leadership at the top to implement customer-centric culture and try to reduce or bypass the friction created by the turf wars. Thank you very much. 

CEO ADVICE: DICK ANDERSON ON DIFFICULTIES IMPLEMENTING CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Mr. Anderson, thank you so much for being here with us today.
Thanks. I'm very glad to be here.
How difficult is it to embrace and
implement customer-centricity in a large county government?
Well, it may seem counterintuitive, but really is.
I have come to experience folks are in public service for a reason.
They really do want to serve the public.
When you start talking about customer centricity, it's more natural than you may think.
The difference or the difficulty, I guess I would say if it were a telecom environment, which was my previous experience, you pretty much know what the customer is looking for and you're providing a service that's well-defined across all of the business units so that you may offer that service.
A mobile phone is mobile phone regardless of if you're in Nashville or if you're in Los Angeles.
In county government, it can be anything from a senior coming into a senior center for a meal at lunch to someone coming in to pay their taxes on their car, to get a car tag to someone that's a juror that's in our justice system.
In that case, it is something that gets defined very specific to the function that we're providing.
But nonetheless, all of our colleagues and employees think of citizens as customers.
Again, with that thought process, while it may be very different experiences and different transactions, they try to treat the citizen as a customer.
In other words, meeting their expectations, ensuring that they're satisfied.
Quite frankly, before they leave in each case,
we ask for their feedback on electronic devices positioned at the exit where they can give us real-time feedback on that experience.
That's perfect. Thank you so much.
Thank you. 

EXPERT ADVICE:  DR. KEN BERNHARDT ON DIFFICULTIES IMPLEMENTING CUSTOMER CENTRICITY

Dr. Bernhardt, thank you so much for joining us today.
Happy to be here.
While most companies know that they need customer-centricity, few of them are able to successfully do it, why is that?
Well, I think that's a great question given that people talk about how important it is to be customer-centric.
It is true that very few companies do this extremely well so why is that?
I think there's a number of reasons.
Let's start with, to do it well is not easy.
It's easy to talk about doing it, it's very hard to be truly committed to doing it. What does that mean?
Really, you have to start with being willing to make the investment, and that really requires a lot of effort to understand consumer needs to start with.
What the consumer really wants you to do, and then in every major decision the company makes, to have the customer at the table when that decision is made.
One of my favorite examples of that is Amazon, which I think does a fantastic job of being customer-centric.
One of the things Jeff Bezos does at every meeting that he's in, there's a chair that nobody sits in, and that chair represents the customer, so that the customer's at the table, and he will look at that chair to get everybody to think about what would the customer want us to do?
Yes, you have to want to have customer-centricity, but you have to actually live it as well.
In addition to that, I think not very many companies do the amount of customer research that needs to be done to truly understand what the customer would want you to do before they make all major decisions, and that's an investment in dollars and time to do that.
Some people say, well, we got to make that decision right away, we don't have time.
Well, today, that's not a very good excuse given how easy it is to do research using the Internet.
You can get feedback from customers quickly, and I don't think very many companies do that very well, and some of the companies that do their research well, don't have senior executives who listen to that research.
You not only have to do the research, you have to listen to it, and obey it, and do what the customer wants.
If you take into account everything that needs to be done to be truly customer-centric, there's a lot of ways to screw up, and a lot of companies screw up in a lot of those ways and very few do it extremely well.
Very good insights. Thank you. 

WEEK 3

HOW TO CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS (PART 1)

INTRODUCTION: CREATING PERFORMANCE & PRICE VALUE

Today's topic is how to create value for your customers as you know, more and more companies in the world are becoming customer centric.
And this is not limited to highly capitalistic countries like America or Europe or advanced economies in general.
But this is also becoming the obsession among emerging markets as more and more emerging markets since the collapse of communism have become more and
more market driven.
Everybody is focusing on the market, but in that area rather than focusing just on competition, they're also focusing on customers.
So this session is focused on customers primarily and how do companies create value for customers.
My plan here is to actually show you the world class companies, how do they create value for their customers and what lessons we can learn from them?
Why this obsession about customers.
My analysis shows that it really began since the 80s, especially after in America.
We started to put together this Malcolm Baldrige Award, as in the late 70s with the stagflation.
American economy was in a malaise, the Japanese took my higher and higher market share.
And that time America woke up to become globally competitive and one of the things as a consequence of that one in the 80s we put together was what is called the Malcolm Baldrige Award.
It is very similar to the Deming award that Japan had created many, many years ago.
And in that Malcolm Baldrige over Baldrige award for quality assurance.
They had put customer satisfaction customer orientation and that's the time when I began to see customer being the obsession of not only the marketing people in the company.
But also the obsession of the CEO in a company all the way to the top in the organization or what we will call the CXX, CIO CFO, CEO kinds of levels of people by and large.
There are four factors that have been responsible for suddenly the companies becoming customer oriented.
The first and the significant factor has to do with aging of the population.
All advanced countries are aging.
The old destination in the world is Sweden, but Sweden is a tiny little country in population count.
Second oldest nation Howard is Japan and it has the highest life expectancy also.
And it's a large population, 140 million people all aging.
In fact, they had the first time, an absolute decline in the count of men in 2005 they're not only not growing, but actually population is declining beginning to decline.
And therefore the idea is that in advanced economies with the aging of the population, there is no new customer that is going to come as begin
the marketplace as getting more of the customers that you have.
And hence this whole focus on customer retention, customer loyalty that began to emerge.
This aging of the population is a very significant phenomenon worldwide.
And I believe the 21st century will be obsessed with that particular demographic trend because even in countries like China which is an emerging economy or Russia, which is an emerging economy.
And eventually we think India, Brazil, etc same thing is going to happen even in countries like China with aggressive population control policies that put together 50 years ago.
China is worrying that by 2050 their population growth will begin to decline and they may even have a plateauing of the total population.
If you don't have new people in the country, you don't have new customers in the marketplace is a simple logic by and large.
So everybody's racing to our capturing or retaining their existing customers.

GROWING IMPORTANCE OF CRM SYSTEMS

A second factor that goes along with that idea has to do with for example not only retention of existing customers
but also the cost of retaining existing customers.
Many scholars have done research that pretty much concludes that cost of acquiring a new customer is much
greater than the cost of retaining the customer.
There may be a debate about what is the differential?
Is it five times,
10 times, three times?
I think it's more academic research.
It is something that will vary from product to product, from industry to industry.
We shouldn't debate about that one.
But the conclusion is very important, namely that are written in economics are superior to acquisition economics in general.
That's the second factor.
A third factor is very important to understand.
That has to do with the emergence of Internet and what we call the CRM, customer relationship management software.
These are very large-scale databases.
Companies, especially in services industries such as the telephone companies, electric utility, airlines, etc., banks.
These companies have direct relationship with end the consumer customers.
Therefore, they're very large databases and they keep this in the record.
All of a sudden, via learned how to use mathematical techniques to apply and identify the targeting of the customers in the right way so that when there is a marketing intervention done such as an advertising promotion, offer, etc., it is a much better yield.
The revolution that Internet has created, not in terms of e-commerce as much as more primarily in terms of database and data mining as it is called has been one more factor.
The last factor, of course, as we know, is that competition is no longer domestic.
With the WTO in place, World Trade Organization, liberalization of markets by and large, companies are now selling their products all over the world.
Competition has become global, is both international trade and investment is becoming global in the process.
In advanced countries now, competition is not from other companies in the advanced countries, competing with American companies, but they are also competing now with the Japanese companies, the Korean companies, the Chinese companies, the Indian companies, and just goes on and on. 

CCONSUMER CENTRICITY vs. PRODUCT MARKETING

What is the evolution of marketing plots and policy?
Let's go into that particular slide.
What we're now finding therefore is that if you look at the history of marketing evolution, marketing began primarily as a product centric marketing.
Remember in the agricultural age, there were no branded products at all.
They were all commodities, unbranded.
Milk was not branded,
rice was not branded,
meat was not branded.
As we became industrialized nations, and as we began to offer mobility of products that we make, in other words, product is produced here and consumed over there.
Just to take a side comment, and as you know I like to do digressions all the time.
The fundamental difference, the biggest revolution, industrial revolution ever created was to divorce production from consumption.
If you take all the technologies and look at its ultimate impact on the society, production and consumption which is to be in the same location in the same time, you produce today, you consume today in the same geography, that got divorced.
Production is here today.
We learned concepts like economies of scale.
We can produce a lot more at one time than what could be consumed in the local community and therefore, products had to be distributed to provide them a location advantage or what is called a distance geography value-add.
Of course, product could be consumed at a different time when you produce.
In order to allow for products to go away from the geography where they were made, we begin to learn to put branding on them.
We began to package them so that it could be preserved, there could be protected, there could be traveling, and we put brand names on that one.
That's how the branding began in many ways.
Ever since that time, marketing world got organized around products and brands.
I call it product-centric marketing, you can call it brand centric marketing, it means the same thing.
Most of this tradition really began in the consumer markets because in consumer markets, primarily the household market, you had packaged goods that came out which had to travel abroad.
Whether it will be cough syrup on the one hand or a soup on the other hand would be detergent eventually, for example, any edible products, any household products, mostly consumables, and that is why marketing becomes so much consumer centric and packaged goods industry centric by-and-large.
If you are into B2B, business to business marketing, the production and consumption was in the same place.
Supplier was very near to where the production took place, at least in the short run, hence, the B2B marketing has not been very strong in the academic literature as a consumer marketing is, but that's the genesis by-and-large.
Our all of marketing got organized to create new markets.
Which means primary focus was on customer acquisition.
Biggest way to create markets for us to make people from doing themselves to buying outside, what we'll call outsourcing.
In fact, I wrote an article several years ago with a colleague of mine by suggesting in the Wall Street Journal that title of the article was very provocative, Outsourcing Comes Home.
While we focus on business to business outsourcing into what is called the BPO or business process outsourcing, call centers, etc to countries like Ireland, India, Philippines, etc, the real outsourcing taking place even today in America is at the home.
As more and more women work outside the family, all the homemaking activities, cooking, cleaning, childcare are outsource permanently.
Now, this phenomenon was much bigger 100, 150 years ago.
At the time, people bought raw materials.
The butcher came home, the milk man came home, and we did our own cooking.
We made bread ourselves, we made the meals every day, and when it was there, there was no market out there.
It is not never counted in GDP if I make it for example.
But if I buy commercially, there's which means all marketing was about creating new markets.
That is what we need to learn that marketing world was organized primarily to create new markets.
How do you convert people from doing it themselves to buying it commercially by showing that we create value for you, economic value, we may create even a embossed null value and image value.
Whatever value we create that it is cheaper, better, and more friendly for them to buy the product than to make the product.
It's a make versus buy decision.
Since most people were making it, converting to buyers became the biggest marketing event.
Marketing did a fantastic job.
If you look at the amount of conveniences marketing has invented or discovered ordinal or offer to the marketplace is mind-boggling.
No more people do washing in the advanced countries by hand, or pounding the clots on a rock as they do in emerging nations today.
No longer in fact people do washing their clothes by having scrubbing on some scrubber.
There are no mechanical ringers, it is automatic washing machines.
Today what you have to do is to put your clothes inside, press a button and everything is done.
What we did was to the society create a time utility for them by showing that the amount of money they spend in more conveniences created by marketing practices and the technology innovation that came along is very beneficial to the society.
The life is much easier to do than ever before.
In the old days, you had to depend on the housewife or the homemaker because there was meal made every day and if she was gone for a day, you were a destitute, who will prepare meals for you?
Today, all of those convenience are there.
We have not only frozen foods, we have actually in fact, ready to serve meals and we're home delivery even today.
Think about the conveniences in hundred and 50 years we have created in the household market alone and how much value marketing added, but that was all product-centric.
Branding was very important.
We learned how to organize the discipline of marketing, the practice of marketing around branding, differentiation, all the stuff, innovation kinds of stuff and that's what we did, and it worked very well.
We created enormous market as it is happening today in emerging economies, again like China, India, etc, where it's all make versus buy decisions more and more, whereas in advanced countries it is repeat buy again and again, buying.
I'm already a buyer now, I'm not going to go back to making those things except as a hobby.
You can see the trend pretty much.
That's clearly one major factor why we have an obsession from shifting from a product centric marketing to actually in fact, a customer-centric marketing. 

CEO ADVICE: DICK ANDERSON ON CUSTOMER CENTRIC MARKETING

Mr. Anderson, thank you so
much for being here with us today.
Thank you. I'm glad to be here.
In your opinion, what is customer-centric marketing and why is it important?
When I think of customer-centric marketing, I guess I think of an example from my past life in Telecom and that's where
rather than just emphasizing the product, whatever the product was again, a wireless phone, a wired service.
It was about the connected lifestyle.
In most people's minds, they see themselves in some future state that's better than the current state,
and if your products and services can help them reach those aspirations, then you have truly customer-centric marketing.
On the other hand, of course, as the quarters role by numbers have to be reached and sales targets are in jeopardy.
It's very easy to go back to, we have this product at this discounted price for this period of time to try to stimulate a course,
a decision on the part of the consumer or the business to select your product or service, but I think long term, understanding what the business or customer aspires to do and seeing that your products and services help them reach those aspirations, which to me is more customer-centric marketing
is the better approach.
But again, there's some tug and pull between those two just because it's a difference between the urgent versus the important.
In the urgent, you have to make some sales targets, but in the important is again, aligning with customers aspirations and having
your products and services help them meet those aspirations.
That's great. Thank you so much.
Thank you. 

COMPETITION DRIVES GROWTH

But in the meanwhile, it was not just product centric marketing, but product centric marketing began as the marketing evolved and grew, and as the economies were growing all through the last century, became more and more competition centric.
Competition created much more push in the marketplace, we had more competitors campaign for the viability or for the loyalty of the customer.
So, competition actually created growth curve which was really rising very fast ,with competition prices began to drop with competition differences in cane, you can satisfy different segments in the market place.
The old saying, we might have talked about it in one of my lectures earlier, this is what's the difference between Henry Ford way of thinking, customers can have all the choice of colors so long as it is black, versus General Motors thinking we say, let me segment the market,
not everybody wants to buy the same car, even if they can afford it.
Both the ability to pay and the willingness to pay very, very different in the society, especially for automobiles, as it would be for housing any durable goods, and General Motors came out with the idea of creating segments and divisions to cater each segment, so Chevrolet caters to one group of customers, Pontiac to one of the group of customers, Buick to a third group of customers, Cadillac to fourth group of customers etcetera.
And that led to more growth at the same time, so we began to shift from a product centric, to in fact a competition centric market, and from competition centric in fact, we began to go into now customer centric, that's the third change we're making.
So, if you look at the marketing literature and marketing practice, especially since the 60s, when we had a surplus economy, more capacity was put because of competition coming entry barriers were lower, capital barriers, operational barriers, expertise, manpower barriers, human capital, talented people, all that was so possible, excess capacity came in.
We began to shift from a seller's market to a buyer's market as it is called, and all of a sudden competition now began to say, we are competing too aggressively.
Competition actually too intensely can destroy the industry, as we see today in the airline industry, all the major carriers, despite having record volume, traffic passengers are not making money.
Prices are dropping faster and faster than the additional revenue they're able to capture with the price elasticity.
And of course, the only time price elasticity works is, when you can increase the total demand, otherwise you lose the money, and it's not like one company losing money against other company, the whole industry is losing money.
So, viability of the industry actually can be destroyed, if competition becomes too intense, and that's what we saw, starting in the late 70s,
with the oil energy crisis, and after oil energy crisis in fact, very significantly offshore competition came in, all the rules, regulations
that protected domestic markets went away, competition became too intense.
So, from the mid 80s onwards, marketing began to think about not as much competition driven marketing, as it shifted from a brand,
a product driven marketing at one time, to more and more a customer driven marketing.
And you can see in the charge, therefore, the evolution from a product centric marketing to competition centric marketing, and now to
customer centric marketing, that is the fundamental change that's taking place.
And this session is designed to really talk about customer centric market. 

ONE TO ONE MARKETING

This session is designed to really talk about customer-centric marketing.
Now why should we focus on customers?
What is the key advantage?
The key advantage, it turns out to be disaggregation of markets.
We have new language that is created such as one-to-one marketing.
That is created because in a services and counter, everything is direct to the end consumer customers.
You can link with them directly.
If we have the databases, we have the names, addresses.
We have a complete profile of a given consumer account that was not possible in the industrial age, as opposed to services age or services economy.
In the industrial age, you sold it to a wholesaler and retailer.
You did not know as a manufacturer, who is your end consumer.
I mean you have some understanding through market research, but at the aggregate level, you could not pin down how your specific product at a brand level was consumed at what time, what place in a family.
This is a key power the customer-centric began to say, can we disaggregate the markets and look at the economics of customer oriented economics as opposed to market oriented economics?
The idea is that marketing was mass marketing at one time, it then began to become segmented marketing like General Motors example,
who were really one of the first ones to introduce segmentation concept.
Although we give more credit to packaged goods companies,
which is true, eventually, they began to look at the demographics, mostly for media purposes, not as much for branding purposes, more for targeting.
Of course, eventually they began to look at, in fact, psychographics and all the stuff.
But really the genesis of segmentation began in consumer durable goods, and that was a very interesting area.
But today, what we are looking at it is not segment of a demographic segment or a psychographic segment.
But today we are looking at a segment of one, as it is called, which leads to one-to-one marketing.
Segment of one is not saying how can I serve that customer better.
That's one option. But really it says, what are the economics of that customer?
Would you believe that marketing as a discipline
and a practice for over 100 years now,  never did desegregate analysis of customer economics?
That's a literature very recent.
In this next chart, I will show you the customer-centric marketing and its advantages, and all the advantages could be summarized in one chart.
For example, if you had the access to the data, in services industries, it is directly to the end users or consumers.
Whereas in packaged goods companies, it will be your customers, your retailer, your wholesaler that you sell to.
Procter and Gamble sells to Walmart, Kroger, Kmart, any of the supermarkets in general, they are their customers.
The word began to shift in marketing from a consumer-centric marketing to more and more customer-centric marketing.
Customer is not the user, but he's the payer.
Anytime you have an accounts receivable, accounts payable relationship in a value chain is a customer.
In a business-to- business marketing, this means your customer is the company, users are the employees, they could be the factory workers when you're selling raw materials, or they could be the office workers when you're selling them office supplies, for example, or office equipment such as a computer, as a printer, et cetera.
They're all users. They are not really the people who pay out of their own pocket.
In B2B, customer really is the company.
In a packaged goods B2C, a customer generally is a wholesaler, a retailer or a middleman.
In a services industries, the customer is also the user, the consumer.
We'll separate those three roles pretty soon.
Customer as a user, customer as a payer, and customer as a buyer, we will separate that or not because that's the foundation of value creation.
This whole presentation is organized around that one.
I just want to plant the idea right now, but we can do the analysis at the account level or at a customer level, whoever is where you have an account relation to, where they have got your goods and they owe you money, or they're paid money to you and you have a record, that's called a customer analysis. 

CEO ADVICE: WILLAM PATE ON ONE-TO-ONE MARKETING

Mr. Pate, thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you so much for having me.
Over the past 20 years, how has customer-centricity changed?
I think it has gotten very focused.
The idea of one-to-one marketing has really come to life.
We have so much more data on customers and their likes and needs.
It used to be 20 years ago you'd develop a product, get a good price, have a great ad campaign and bring it to market
and today you've got to worry about so many other things.
You've got to worry about the product delivery.
You've got to worry about the product packaging.
When you see the different ways we're consuming products now just in the fast food industry, you can have it brought to your house, mobile ordering,
the way that things have changed in the drive in line.
All of these are things that marketing people have to consider when they're looking at the total customer experience.
Very good. 

THE 20:80 RATIO

If you plant these, not in terms of a typical distribution with the average is a focus.
If you plant this in terms of if you look at the chart, if you plant from the highest paying customer, number 1.
Then the second highest than the second highest etc.
It's called a histogram in statistics a distribution but it is organized from highest to the lowest as you see on the x axis.
That's very important what you find around it is very, very interesting.
Namely that the revenue curve always comes down exponentially sharp.
It is not a linear declining curve straight line, it is sharp exponential curve.
It is also called Pareto law in economics, it is also called in fact a 20-80 ratio.
In marketing, we always talk about 20-80 ratio when we say 20% of your customers will generate 80% of your revenue.
And every salesperson knows this thing.
All the data shows you, I will take another tangent here again to show therefore our dependent variable at the customer level, not at the market level is no longer a normal distribution.
In other words, when you do a regression, y as a function of x.
For example, the assumption is that you're dependent.
Will be normally distributed and the errors will be random around the average to do any statistical modeling and inference building.
And I find fascinating that all marketing articles presume that your dependent variable is normally distributed.
Which would be true at the aggregate market level but not at the customer level.
At the customer level, market is always skewed.
In fact, I also found at the aggregate market level, also, it's skewed.
In other words, if you define geographical markets, let's say in retailing store by store, you see the same distribution.
If you in fact plaque discovered by product lines, you see the same distribution.
So fundamentally, we have misused statistics in marketing by not understanding that our dependent variable, the y axis as we call it.
In this case, the revenue you generate from a market, from a product, from a customer is not normally distributed.
It's not symmetrical distribution around an average.
It is highly skewed, which is a fundamental problem or fundamental insight about marketing.
At the disaggregate level at the customer level, you plot like that.
It is very fascinating because while we know the revenues about these customers, our accounting was organized around the industrial age.
Cost accounting and therefore we know costing only at the product level at the aggregate market level, but not at the individual customer level.
Just to give you some examples.
When this research was done by Procter and Gamble, whose customers are,
turns out to be companies like Walmart Kmart, I talked about it earlier.
First of all, a world class company like Procter and Gamble did not know who is the single largest customer.
Think about that one.
Why would that be?
Because they were so consumer centric, all believing that the brand is created to create a franchise with the consumers.
So there's users as buyers as loyal and they will come to the store, which is good for the retailer, which is a great model.
And there are more understanding about consumers than ever before.
But they did not realize that the retailing was shifting at the same time.
All of a sudden the single largest customer calls and complaints which turns out to be Walmart.
In fact, the call came as the story goes from Sam Walton himself and when the CEO of a customer company calls on you.
Please understand he's not calling to praise you.
He's upset.
And what happened at pre NG as it happens in many companies now is that companies are organized by product silos.
Brand silos, the profit and loss is all organized, their budgeting around product categories.
So you have a detergent division, you have a coffee division, you have in fact a laundry division, you have just whatever divisions they have.
And each division supplies products to the same customer.
In this case, a retailer with different commercial terms, legal terms, different logistical approaches, etc.
And Walmart, which likes to streamline things in terms of its supply function.
Found that it was a nightmare for them to accept all these world class brand names of Procter and Gamble and create a value for their customers.
Who are consumers because it was highly dysfunctional.
So they began to raise the question that when we aggregate all the buying we do from you.
And they had better databases about where they buy from than PNG had about where they sell.
And Walmart showed them that they are the single largest customer.
This is about, let's say 18, 20 years ago, roughly.
As the story goes suddenly, Procter and Gamble woke up and realized we have been overemphasizing consumers.
We have two customers consumers as customers, which is called pool marketing and trade it also as a customer, not strictly as a channel.
And there's a fundamental shift in packaged goods industry.
How do you treat channel as your partner as your customer?
And they began to plot this thing, guess how many years it took them to figure out what is the cost of doing business with companies like Kroger, Walmart Kmart etc.
And they only have 1500 accounts in those days.
1500 accounts, I'm told it took them more than three years to figure out their cost structure.
And the only way you can do it is to give up the traditional cost accounting techniques.
And they are all now using more and more a new technical activity based costing ABC.
Which has become a popular managerial tool for cost allocation based upon what activities.
Or functions you perform from a given perspective in this customer perspective and you allocate the cost accordingly.
And guess what happens when you put now the revenue cur with the cost curve.
Suddenly you see a very different picture, Cost curve does not come down as sharply in a proportional manner as the revenue cost curve.
As you see in the chart comes down more flat, linear, slightly declining.
Which is a immediate insight that gives you customer understanding because it now destroys all of our traditional ideas about competition.
Such as a low cost producer, as a competitive advantage, differentiation as a competitive advantage, all the stuff throws out the window.
I'll just get into that in one moment, I just want to set this one up for you. 

FINDING PROFITABLE CUSTOMERS

By the way, what Procter and Gamble did when they analyzed the data, they found fascinating, that out of the 1,500 accounts, guess how many they were making money?
Less than 90 accounts.
Now you put a very aggressive managerial process to say, why are we doing with other customers business?
Remember, I already talked about, it's customer economics, not customer orientation necessarily.
That doesn't mean I'm going to please
customers at any cost.
In the chart, you will see words like outsourcing customers.
I'll get into some details of that one.
The reason is very simple that certain customers who will never make money.
Therefore, what do you do with those customers?
What you find in the chart is that 90 customers are profitable, 1,410 customers are non-profitable and how does a company keep their customers even though they're not profitable after discovering and after knowing it.
What is the typical answer by
sales and marketing organizations?
They will always call them if you're losing money as strategic accounts.
I like the word strategic, like anybody else, but it can't be strategic forever.
You can invest for a year, six months, etc., but afterwards that account, better be profitable.
Anyhow, the ratio of strategic versus financially viable accounts should be maybe 10 percent strategic and 90 percent profitable. This is the reverse.
Ninety percent of the customers are non-profitable, only 10 percent are profitable.
You may have a great consumer franchise.
People love your brands. Who cares?
You're not making money. In order to actually make money or in order to generate revenue,
not profitability, what are you doing is a double jeopardy.
You now do more advertising, more promotion and unfortunately, you are losing money all at the trade level now because at the trade level, the wholesale and retail level, you're losing money, if you do this analysis right.
Procter and Gamble woke up and decided, why are we doing business with this 1,410 accounts?
Can we basically say goodbye to them?
Well, if you said goodbye to them, you run into all the antitrust legal issues.
Are constraining retail competition by not providing access to your products?
Those retailers and wholesalers may take you to court by saying you're depriving of a livelihood.
In the US, we have a law called Robinson-Patman Act that says that if you can justify cost differences, you can charge different prices to retailers.
This is to preserve end consumer market competition essentially.
We abolished resale price maintenance agreements in the '70s in America.
Price is totally liberalized.
Hardware retailer wants to sell even losing money. That's his problem.
Given that attitude that consumers should not be constrained by price fixing that takes place at retail level through resale price agreements, that change was very massive in America and Robinson-Patman Act was not sufficient.
What they did was interestingly.
If you throw all these 1,410 accounts out, guess what happens?
You may lose some strategic accounts.
Now what you're to do is put into a practice to say, which accounts are the 1,410 should I keep as my strategic investment.
That process would be very similar to what we do in budgeting, called zero-based budgeting.
In other words, this year's budget is not given to you as a guarantee for next year to show next year, how are you going to invest, spend that money and I give you the budget fresh every year.
You can do zero-based budgeting approach to say, each account by account, can we do a strategic analysis which gives you an enormous macroscopic understanding of customer by definition?
In this case, you can look at a retailer and say,
is this retailer likely to grow continuously in the future?
Look at the last 3-5 years of their growth structure that the new retailers maybe somebody who is a specialty retailer into organic foods alone.
A company called Whole Foods is into that category.
Are you able to supply to them?
Or there may be an online grocery retailer happening.
Remember Walmart was not there 30, 40 years ago.
Walmart suddenly became the largest customer today because yesterday it was a small little company.
If you had invested in Walmart at that time, you will not even have to be woken up by Walmart to say I'm your biggest customer.
That was the change. They picked  only 10 accounts and said goodbye to 1,400 accounts. 

OUTSOURCING SELECTED CUSTOMERS

They picked only 10 accounts
and said goodbye to 1,400 accounts.
What is a goodbye?
Goodbye is not simply saying I want to do business with you because then you run into all the legal-ethical issues, so you begin to do outsourcing as the world goes.
Who said outsourcing stops at all internal functions like payroll outsourcing, employee benefit outsourcing, IT outsourcing, legal services outsourcing.
Outsourcing actually can be about our external customers and that's what we begin to learn.
This is nothing new.
It comes like a shock when people say, "My, God.
If you outsource customers, where is the business?
Who are ultimately your customers?"
First of all, you're not outsourcing everybody.
You are outsourcing a percentage of your customer base.
Also, outsourcing does not mean you lose business.
It's basically saying somebody else does business for you or as my agent.
We have done this in retailing.
Companies like Nestle, for example, have always had a third-party managing relationship with small retailers.
That has been a typical process.
We have done quite a lot of outsourcing of external customer activities.
We don't do direct promotions ourselves.
We outsource to a company to do it.
Call centers are outsourced.
Ad agencies are outsourced.
Market research is outsourced.
We do a lot of outsourcing in marketing, but this concept of outsourcing customers becomes a shock value.
We start saying, "My God, how can we outsource?"
But it is a very legitimate thought process.
It is better than abandoning customers because then the customers can get angry quite a lot.
There may be a public opinion as it is happening in the banking sector worldwide when banks have simply said, we don't do business with you.
In Australia, there is a reaction; in England, there is a reaction; in America, there is a reaction because banking is a necessity.
Then maybe some customers who can't afford to pay prices that banks
want to charge to do business with them, it becomes a public opinion issue so outsourcing is somebody else manages those accounts on your behalf
because they have a much lower cost position.
You are a very large company and that's what P&G ended up doing.
Those 1,400 accounts are still served by offering them Procter & Gamble products, but it is done through third-party warehousing,
logistics distribution.
That's a very key concept. 

CUSTOMER LOYALTY LIMITATIONS

If you think this is limited to packaged
goods companies, I'll give you two more examples and then we'll move on.
There are more insights into the chart.
So also actually get into more stuff.
But I'll just show you around here are very fascinating.
And that turns out to be, for example the following.
I did a similar analysis for AT&T, the long distance company in America.
It's monopoly had gone,
it markets declined to about 60% when I did the research.
And when we plotted account by account revenues,
same 20:80 ratio Pareto law came in.
And fascinating we found that are the 60 million accounts,
consumer accounts, residential customers as we call them.
They will never ever make money on 20 million accounts ever.
Why?
Because these are 20 million accounts never make an outbound
a long distance call.
And the way we price in the landline long distance services,
we don't pay for the inbound call, we only pay for the outbound call.
And these are mostly older, senior citizens or
older population close to retirement living in small towns.
They love AT&T.
They are not willing to switch to a competition, which is interesting.
But the loyalty actually does not generate any revenue for you.
And what do you think is the average cost of customer care.
And AT&T after a significant competition actually become all
the customer satisfaction and all those procedures and
they won the Malcolm Baldrige award in the services industry, one of the very few
companies that one Malcolm Baldrige award in the consumer market.
Federal Express had won the award before them.
So they had a great CRM platforms,
building platforms, 24 hours, seven call centers,
not outside of America they were all in America but outsource from AT&T.
Somebody else was doing a company called convergence actually was doing that work
for them.
All this stuff was done very well, but it's costing money.
The average cost of the customer support in AT&T was at that time $6 a month.
You're talking about $72 a year cost with zero revenue.
Those 20 million accounts,
one third of the customers are costing you that much more.
You take 20 million multiplied with $70 and
you see $1.4 billion of subsidy in place.
And the biggest disadvantage, a competitive descent engine.
A company is not a low cost position or lack of differences and
that's what we teach, it is cross subsidy.
By working in the regulated industries where cross subsidy is the foundation of
the industries generally I found, I learned quite a lot how marketing we
teach and what we practice is so wrong actually, not just bad.
Because in this chart that I'm showing you still you will find what happens
is very simple.
For AT&T now, if I was your competitor, where do you think I will attack you?
Am I going to go after the 20 million accounts?
Obviously not.
I'm going to go after your heavy users which are on the left side of the curve.
If you believe 20:80 ratio I will go after your 20% of your accounts who are making
ungodly numbers of calls and generating thousands of dollars per month revenue or
at least hundreds of dollars a month for revenue.
And that's exactly what MCI, their arch rival competitor did.
At that time, MCI came out with a very smart idea called friends and family.
If I as a consumer can sign up 20 friends and family,
it's all database management, it's all billing.
I will give you 20% discount in all the calls that you make to those friends and
families and of course a heavy user generally has more family and
friends to call.
That's why they're using the telephone talking on the phone and
having tall payment.
It's not unlimited calls, it's just a per minute of use.
And in this business, the fixed cost is so
high marginal cost of making one more call in the network is nothing.
It is a fraction of a fraction of a cent.
So you're in a double jeopardy because that's where MCI attacks.
MCI came up with this brilliant idea because if I signed up 20 friends and
family, I'm now stuck with you.
I have to now call all of them to say I'm of my MCI plan,
which means MCIA captures your customer.
You are the incumbent largest market shareholder.
I'm capturing share, you cannot take it back.
And AT&T did not have the customer care platforms,
the building platforms to duplicate what MCI did.
They're losing 1.5% market share a month.
They're bleeding.
What do you think AT&T should do?
A typical reaction by a product manager would be, let's drop the price also.
Which is the worst thing you can ever do.
Because if you are the incumbent, you have a 60% market share.
A. T. And T.
I mean the M.
C. A. Has only 15% market share.
And guess what happens?
You have four customers on whom you're going to lose money by dropping price.
M. C.
I only has to lose on one of them.
The game is over.
Unless and there's only one condition that I found where the incumbent
should play the price reaction game is when you can grow the total
market you can drop the price and match the competition.
If you can grow the total market.
However, if the market is stagnant and you drop the price and
you have a large market share, you lose more money.
Always in any industry, we call this as beer wars in the beer industry cola
wars in the soft drinks industry aerospace industry wars between Boeing and
McDonnell Douglas at one time Boeing and Airbus goes on and on this.
This is universal rule that incumbent should never use price as a weapon to
counter react against the new entrants who has used prices and
interest strategy unless it can grow the total market.
And of course, you have a second problem.
If you do a pricing reaction, it is called predatory pricing.
Government actually can come down with an antitrust lawsuit against you.
So given both of them, the idea is that price is not the right weapon.
So what do you do?
You're losing on the left side and the more profitable customers you lose?
Remember on the left side, the cost is low, revenue is high and therefore you
have more margin and that margin subsidizes the non profitable customers.
One of those customers you lose,
you are now having five times more burden on the other side.
So suddenly the ideas are very different.
Now, this is the advantage of customer centric marketing. 

CEO ADVICE: DOUG SHIPMAN ON MAXIMAZING CUSTOMER LOYALTY

Thank you so much for joining us today.
My pleasure.
In your opinion, what are some key things that organizations need to maximize customer loyalty ?
Well, customer loyalty first and foremost is about making sure the customer doesn't want to change.
I think customers usually don't want to change.
If they are happy with the product or service you're providing, that's one less thing they have to think about.
It's one less choice they have to make in a myriad of choices.
First, I think the inertia is working with you.
You have to think about what are ways in which we can maximize inertia.
Can we have automatic renewals?
Can we have things set on a certain schedule?
Can we have automatic payments?
Can we make it so that it is very easy for that inertia to continue? I think that's one.
Two, when it comes to customer loyalty, an emotional aspect of customer loyalty will help that technical decision stay in place.
That can be in a brand perspective, that can be in a identification perspective.
I feel like this represents my values.
I feel like this company is aligned with who I am.
In those sorts of aspects, if you can have an emotional overlay, I think you can maximize customer loyalty.
Number three, if you mess up with that customer, you have to be highly responsive and very quickly.
Customers are willing to forgive and in fact customer loyalty can go up following a bad situation, but only if the responsiveness by the organization or the company is quick, it's efficient, and then the situation is taken care of.
Finally, I'd say when it comes to customer loyalty, there is a surprise and delight point of view.
If you really value a customer and they feel as if they're loyal to you, then occasionally recognizing that loyalty in some way
with something that is unexpected can be the story that they tell to others.
I've been a customer of x along and do you know what they did for me the other day, they called me and they upgraded me without me even asking.
They gave me this gift without even asking.
Those sorts of small gestures let the customers know that you really value them.
That can be the storytelling that leads to them not only being loyal to you, but also helping others know how they feel about your company or organization.
Perfect. Thank you so much. 

HOW TO CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS (PART 2)

UNDERSTANDING PRICE SENSITIVITY

The answer turned out to be just the opposite and
this is where the traditional economic principles don't work in marketing.
The idea here was that actually,
you should raise the price counter to all of the economic thinking by and
large because casual users on the right side of that curve are going to be
less price sensitive than the heavy users on the left side of the curve.
You raise the price now there are five casual users who are now
subsidizing a heavy user as it should be because that's where you
have the cost efficiency of serving those customers.
So what you do is you raise the price, that's a 15% to 20% and
then you subsidize a handful of heavy users 10%,
5%, whatever it is to slow down competition that way.
Which is totally reverse thinking by and large and that's what they ended up doing.
I found the same thing I can go on giving, I don't know how many
examples I've done this kind of research and consulting for so many companies.
This chart is so strategic that in fact, I can give one more example then we'll go
on and the example I can give you around there has to do with Einstein Young.
Einstein Young at that time, was not only the audit company but
also did also automation IT Consulting
at the same time which eventually spun out to Capgemini, okay?
All of the audit companies are mandated not to do consulting for the same clients.
So you get audit account which is a lifelong relationship and
now you do all the value add services for them,
as Ad agencies did at one time they will do market research,
strategic planning, etc., accounting forms, and learned how to do it.
All these was a sort of the 70s and the 80s phenomenon essentially, by the way,
that led to a very large consultancy company for Arthur Andersen, remember?
Arthur Anderson on the audit side died unfortunately with the Enron problem and
all that stuff but they're consulting armies to be called Andersen Consulting
which is now called Accenture which is the number two company and IT Services right after IBM Global Services.
Very large practice very successful practice at the same time.
Well, Erst and Young had all that thing together, 4000 clients worldwide, and guess how many they were making money?
Same data, same approach showed them they were making money under 200 clients.
Most of them was a giveaway services.
They never did the profitability analysis client by client which generally is very possible in professional services.
By definition you should be able to do it because you're building is actually the question of cost allocation of these associates who serve these clients, the support services and the partner's cost, and all the stuff it could be done.
When they did their thing they were surprised that just like Procter and Gamble was surprised just like AT and T was surprised.
This is the power of the chart and the chart, therefore, is very, very key to understand.
And around here, therefore, if you look at the chart, what you'll find on the left side, therefore, is now when you analyze the data in many companies, we find that that is not exactly real, this is what I would call a theoretical chart.
This is how the world should be.
But actual data shows you that among your top four, five, or ten accounts, you are not making as much money.
You may be losing money, but it is the next level of accounts, account number 10 to account number 100 that you are making money and they're losing money again.
Why would that be?
And the answer is again very simple.
The answer is that our sales people surrender margins before customer even opens his mouth.
Price reduction is the easiest wealth to sell.
It's not brainer.
So we now train companies to say, please, please either have the incentives for salespeople on margins and profitability, not just on revenue or actually in fact show them the chart and show guys we are losing money on these key accounts that we have.
And have the courage to renegotiate prices properly, no matter whether it's a commodity product or a branded product makes no difference.
So we often will say, well, in a commodity marketing, there's no branding and therefore if we do branding, we're going to command margin prices bunk it, it does not work.
This data I have seen where the top five, ten accounts actually are losing money is across all branded products,
branded companies in the B to B market, B to C market, however, you look at it.
And that's the whole power of this analysis. 

CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT

Last point and I haven't taken too much time on this one chart, but it's very important to understand.
If you look at on the left side, we have this notion from traditional industrial economics or industrial organization economics as we call them.
The notion is that, if you are the lowest cost producer, you will have a competitive advantage.
I find again, it's bunk because in this chart you may be the lowest cost producer, that average cost card that you see.
I'm a new entrant.
I don't have scale economies, my cost will be higher.
But guess what I will do, I will still have enough margin left on those few left side accounts where the cost and
the revenue break on the left side of that one, and
I will share that margin with my customer and take the business away from you.
And especially if your customers are distributors such as P & G relationship with Walmart.
If your customers are wholesalers, distributors, dealers or retailers, they have no emotional loyalty of consumption, they are economically driven
wherever there's a fraction of a margin, they will shift their loyalty.
So in that market especially, I can capture a very large share on the left side and I still make money as a new entrant without economies of scale.
So this is the first place I find the theory of economies of scale and scope breakdown because it never analyzed the disaggregate way of
looking at cross subsidies in place.
While I learned the power of cross subsidy as a problem for a company in the regulated industries like the telephone, electric utility,
etc, I find these cross subsidies prevalent universal across all industries.
So this chart has become very valuable.
It therefore says that you better make sure on the left side which are your most profitable customers somehow protect them, create a wall around them.
And on the right side where you're losing money, outsource the customers as much as possible.
Which led to the concept of what is called customer relationship management, we call it key account management.
Global account management, whatever you do.
And try in fact on that side to create in depth relationship that goes beyond the transaction.
And of course there are several mechanisms in a whole literature called relationship marketing, and I will have a separate presentation later on that area.
In relationship marketing, the idea was that first of all you bond with your customer beyond transactions by having an emotional linkage with the customer, a structural linkage which means you know database to database, how would you do it?
By having a feedback mechanism which says that you are calling on the customers after the purchase.
What's the definition of a relationship marketing as opposed to selling?
Selling says I'm only interested in you till I make a sale.
In relationship marketing, it says I have an interest in you after you buy from me.
So customer support organizations or what is called after marketing becomes very important and
customers feel good that after I bought from you, you still care for me.
That's just the emotional bonding, a structural bonding through database, all the stuff we can do, but the more powerful platforms is one stop shop.
We said that if I can motivate the same profitable customer to buy other profitable products, it's called a cross sell.
Or if I can do up sell, which means I offer him products which are even better margin products for example.
That's a possibility.
And in banking this is the hottest topic, cross sell, up sell.
All the stuff we talk about. 

DAVID ALMOST ALWAYS WINS

That's the left side of the car.
In the middle where we are making normal profits from an account,
we're not losing money, we're not making money, there you might have a transaction
our relationship which says, let's look at transaction by transaction.
How should we relate to the customer?
But the most dramatic concept is on the right side to say,
let's have the courage to simply outsource our customers to somebody else.
And we don't know how to do external customer outsourcing as very well,
especially in the consumer markets,
especially in services industries like the banks, like the utility etc.
And that's what we are trying to learn how we do it by and large.
So this chart is very key.
In this chart the punch line is that the David always wins against Goliath.
In fact bigger the Goliath that David gets more advantage,
I often have called this this curse of incumbency.
If I have a market share 70% on the monopolist and
here is a niche company whose market share is less than 5%.
And usually those are the foreign companies very successful in their markets
and come to America as they've done in consumer electronics,
as they did in the watch industry where they destroyed Timex which is the largest
dominant monopoly market share.
As they have done in fact in automobile industry from Japan at one time and
now Korea, as they've done in the IT Consultancy Services.
Indian software companies are cream, skimming those accounts,
big accounts where they're able to do actually do a better job at more
profitable and a better customer friendly lower prices.
However you look at it interestingly that David always wins.
If the David's market share is under 5% in your market share is 60%
you have 12 times the disadvantage.
Unlike AT and TMCI where the disadvantage at that time was only four times because
MCI had 15% market share and AT had 60%, is the issue of the two market share.
So essentially as a way of measuring this disadvantage that you have,
very important message to learn.
So that's what we're talking about.
The reason why companies suddenly became interested in customer centric marketing
is that we began to understand the economics of customer relationship
management.
And that's how the whole new practice came about called CRM on the one end
which is IT based software data mining and all the stuff.
And also relationship management more the softer side,
more account management bankers create to create a personal banker and
of course in business to business we created key account management.
There's a dedicated account executive, you can call him, he's your person, he's
you're advocating the company, he manages all the bureaucracies in the company etc.
All the large companies in, let's say Lucent, Nortel, IBM,
they all have put together key account management processes by and large. 

INTRODUCTION: UNDERSTANDING CUSTOMERS

now let's go into understanding customers.
The next chart.
This chart is actually three dimensional but
I'm going to show you two dimensions here.
Basically I designed this chart after learning from a case study and
I'll talk about the case study first.
I don't know whether you know but for
the first time after lifelong arch rivalry between General Motors and
four, wherefore was always number two, always wanted to take over
GM the best selling car in America always was a Chevrolet model called impala.
Eventually caprice in the seventies Chevrolet division
of General Motors redesigned the car.
It was rated the best in consumer reports and always came out very very well and
it had a dominant market share and four could do nothing with their own
brand names till they put a quality process in place.
Learning from the Japanese for the first time a non family member
had taken over the company as the CEO Don Peterson was his name.
He for the first time brought together the forced German engineers because
ford was doing business in Europe and the American engineers on another car
called Thunderbird, both engine and transmission and sally found these
two engineering cultures when you fuse them well do better innovation.
So he designed the whole car with this combination of the German
thinking as well as in fact the American thinking and
that car was a ford model called Taurus T A U.
R. U. S.
Out of nowhere Torres became number one model, great news, they made record money,
everybody's happy but there's a slight problem here because if you now look at J.
D. Power and
Associates data which is a customer satisfaction rating company very popular
in America and
worldwide now across industries they begin with the automotive sector but
they do now customer satisfaction ratings of everything practically J.
D. Power and Associates data never showed up
Taurus as a car among the top 10 most satisfied automobiles.
So there's something wrong.
Either the data is wrong or there's something that mediates.
Remember in academic world we talk about the mediation was as moderating whatever
it is in this case there's a moderating variable that comes into play which comes
in the way it's a co variant which says that if that condition is present you
should see the result.
Otherwise you won't see the result.
Right this.
Bayesian statistics essentially and that's exactly what we found.
I was asked to do advice to say who is right.
Company begins to deny this data because you're so
convinced what you did was right and you see financial results here,
you have record units you are selling, it's a fixed cost industry, you have
economies of scale, you are making money for feels good and quality process works.
In fact it's called functional deployment.
You know our quality process which is slightly different than TQM process.
More customer centric actually.
So when I looked at the data I found certainly very interestingly
namely that for motor company for the quality process only up to
the factory in their mind the quality stopped at the factory.
But from a customer viewpoint, it is the total experience.
That's why customer experience is becoming such an important
concept in package schools industries or
in product industries, it is not just what you buy, but how you buy.
They had never put the quality process on the dealers because dealers
are independent companies, even though they are franchisees and you
have a control over them through franchise contracts, but they just didn't do it.
They thought quality stopped at the factory,
typical manufacturing mindset of a company in services industries, usually you do
downstream all the way to customer experience level, which is why customer
experience practice is coming much more aggressively from the services industries
than from the product industries right now, and that's exactly what happened.
They forgot the dealer. 

PRODUCT QUALITY IS NOT ENOUGH

I've put this two-dimensional map.
If you look at it, Ford is on
the right side of the chart,
bottom right. Good product.
But actually in fact,
you will find in fact the customer dealer is negative.
Can you give me a car company that is
both poor in quality in the car,
and also in customer relationship to the dealer?
We used to talk about that one as a car company
on the lower left side called Yugo.
Remember Hugo came from Yugoslavia.
Car was not designed right for the American market.
They were opportunistic that are suddenly they'll get
access to the Canadian in the American market,
and they will get some share.
It turned out to be not the case.
Of course their dealer network was very weak.
The best set of dealers
did not want to be dealers of Yugo.
That was Yugo. Remember Yugo was at the lower left.
Lower right is in fact four.
But product is good,
but the dealership is not right.
Upper-left surprisingly, we found was
General Motors where dealership was very strong.
In fact, they had three generation dealers in Chevrolet.
In other words, the grandfather started
the Chevrolet dealership at
the turn of the century in 1900s,
passed on to his son or daughter,
and passed on to his son or daughter or son-in-law.
However, it works. Three generations.
They were all living in
communities where there were also community leaders,
which means they were not just business people,
they were good community leaders,
and therefore they felt obligated to do
everything right from a customer viewpoint,
because customers are my neighbors also.
Very interesting. Their definition of stakeholders was
broader than the manufacturers
definition of a stakeholder.
Stakeholder is not just my customer,
but he's my neighbor,
he's my mayor, maybe,
he's my banker, he is my et cetera.
Relationship was tight and they
were very fantastic loyalty.
But all the mistakes are made in the factory.
GM is sending out wrong color or wrong engine in the car.
Remember that whole incident about they put
a Chevrolet engine in
an Oldsmobile car or whatever happened.
That a litigation almost, very fascinating.
GM had dinner cars come with
Nixon cuts in the logistical supply, transport.
They didn't manage it very well
and the dealer had to apologize.
Car doesn't come on time. It's the wrong car.
I'm sorry. I'll fix it for you,
which is costing the dealer also.
A loyalty can erode in the process, interestingly.
GM was on the upper left side of the chart.
GM problem is diametrically opposite of Ford problem,
and they think they're very comparable companies.
Ford problem is to show up the dealership aspect of customer experience.
GM problem is to fix the factory problems. 

WHO IS THE CUSTOMER ? 

What dimension, and the
how dimension are very fundamental.
What I will tell you is that I will break up the
one-dimensional later on into two components.
It is what the product that you
offer and the price at which you offer,
and therefore, the value.
It's a value combination dimension,
which I'll break it up.
How of course is this service dimension?
Now Ford Motor Company has said
it is possible because of technology revolution.
Remember I talked about earlier the Internet revolution,
that I can throw the serial number
at the mechanic level in a dealer
even organized so that just like
a Doctor the same Doctor sees you as a patient,
the same mechanic will
see the same car again, and again.
He knows the car history just like a Doctor
knows your history or dentist knows or history.
They're all putting that together now.
But unfortunately, the horse may be out of the barn.
If Ford can do it,
so can Toyota today.
If GM can do it,
so can Honda today,
this is a very powerful platform,
so I'll take one more area in this,
then go into little more depth about,
well, let's talk about who is
a customer all this
time we've been talking about customer.
Let's talk about who is your customer before we
get into how to create value for customers.
So here is a definition.
I find that customer is not one entity.
Even in household consumer market.
Since most marketing, as I said earlier,
got organized around package goods industry
because of our historical evolution,
we thought if I'm a buyer,
I'm a payer,
and I'm a user, makes sense.
Of course, in business to business,
everybody knew that's not the case.
As early in 1970s,
I wrote an article about how industrial buyers buy.
What is the psychology of buying?
We came up with the concept that
it is a joint decision-making,
a decision-making unit with engineers playing one role,
which are basically the role of
defining who the supplier will be.
The factory workers are the users,
the buyer is the procurement department,
and the pair would be actually the finance department.
You see, it is very obvious in a be-to-be
market because there are separate departments,
and functions, and you have to
please all of them to make a sale.
In consumer markets, we never separated those roles.
But consumer market is a household.
Just like household is an organization.
Just like a business as
an organization may be more informal.
There's no formal budgeting,
maybe as businesses here,
but rules are the same.
In a household, the child,
maybe the user, the wife,
maybe the paired because she does
the budgeting for the monthly budget.
Of course, the husband, maybe the buyer now.
Remember more and more in
America as wife is working outside the family,
all of the household chores are done by family members.
In fact, in many parts of this country is
the teenage high school student who
actually does the grocery shopping
now or the husband does the grocery shopping.
The traditional roles are blurring also.
We need to break up the customer into three roles.
Even if I'm a single person,
both as a buyer and a payer, and a user,
because in a personal care product,
I will be doing all three roles.
You need to understand my three roles.
Which role are you going to please me?
Are you going to please me as
a user, through product experience?
Are you going to please me as
a payer by giving me good value?
Are you going to please me in the way you treat me
in the marketplace when I go to buy your product?
The answer is yes.
This is the fundamental change in marketing.
You can make the best product
but if it is not affordable,
if there is no willingness to
pay, you will never make money.
You may have the best product, very affordable,
but if you don't sell it in the customer-friendly manner,
you will never make it or
you will have a sub-optimization.
Surprisingly, the only company that seems to
have understood such simple concept in marketing.
Namely that if you offer
a superior product at a lower price,
not higher price, which is what we teach in marketing.
In a customer-friendly market,
you will always have a market Monopoly.
You don't have to have patent rights to get a monopoly.
You don't have to have a regulated monopoly
and electric utility.
You can have a monopoly by customers
surrendering their choices because they love you.
The only company that has learned this thing in
my analysis of working with hundreds of companies,
turns out to be Toyota Motors.
Toyota Automobile is a superior product,
emphasizing reliability primarily because
reliability is become very important in
the automobile industry in advanced countries because of
all the safety in case you are stranded on
the highway late at night, Who's going to help you?
But they make their products not only the best-in-class,
but also very affordable,
at least willingness to pay show your value,
and the dealership is very good.
Three roles of a customer are
very important to understand.
Therefore, we can learn from industrial marketing
quite a lot into services marketing,
and into Household Marketing.
So the first notion is that a customer
is not just a buyer.
He's also a payer,
and she's also a user
and we need to satisfy all three roles of a customer. 

SATISFYING ALL THREE ROLES

So the first notion is that a customer is not just a buyer, he's also a payer, and she's also a user, and we need to satisfy all three roles of a customer.
I have a text book called customer behavior.
This is the foundation of that knowledge and it shows you conditions
where I may be neither a payer nor a buyer, but just a user.
It may be places in fact where I may be actually not a payer,
it's a free good public services, but I'm a buyer and a user for example.
And what are the differences that takes place?
I don't have time here to go into that detail because our notion here is not who
is a customer, but how do we create value for the customer?
Which is the second part of this presentation.
Now, what do users want?
Users want what we call performance value.
And there are two dimensions under the performance value,
a functional performance and what is called a psychological performance or
psychological value.
Payers want price value again, there are two dimensions in price value,
ability to pay and willingness to pay.
Buyers want service value, procurement value, and there are two dimensions again,
one is of course availability of your product or service at the time in
the place, customer wants and the convenient manner he will get it.
So if I want to order an airline ticket and
I'm held 30 minutes on the phone with the music, it's not convenient.
It's available 24/7 but it's not convenient.
So we have added a convenience dimension, also I have added that dimension.
In this presentation, we'll be talking about the first dimension,
functional value, primarily, performance functional value.
Same thing, willingness to pay as opposed to the ability to pay and
availability etcetera.
Although we will add the other dimension in how companies have created value.
So that's the second point.
Each one wants a different value.
Therefore, if you offer a better product or service at a lower price in a customer
friendly manner, as I mentioned earlier, you create sustained customer loyalty.
My first book I wrote was called The Theory of Buyer Behavior,
1969 publication.
I started working on that book with my professor, Professor John Howard,
It's called Howard Sheth theory of buyer behavior became the foundation of modern
knowledge about brand loyalty, customer loyalty.
Way back when John Wiley and sons published that book in 1969.
We worked about seven years,
my doctoral dissertation was to test the theory actually.
And in that theory, in fact,
we say that we need to understand our knowledge is very different today.
We presume because of economic influence and maybe even psychology influence,
but more economic influence that customers want to make choices.
Whereas my theory was that customers reduced choices,
through learning through experience.
They don't like to make choices, choices are expensive.
There's a transaction cost associated every time I go to the store,
customers are more conscious of transaction costs.
They don't articulate very well, but they are aware of that one intuitively
unconsciously almost, and therefore they don't want to do that stuff.
So they do convenience, they do one-stop shop whatever they do.
So they reduce choices and they become brand loyal or they become store loyal.
They become what we call habit-driven.
So we used learning theory as a platform and ultimately, therefore,
the notion here is that if you offer a superior product at a lower price than
market in a customer-friendly manner, customers will surrender all the choices.
Customers don't want to be transaction-oriented.
They want to be in a relationship with you.
You cannot have a relationship with a customer unless customer wants to
surrender their choices, it's a simple idea.
We have never thought that in relationship marketing,
that customer has to surrender choices for you to engage in a relationship with them.
So we put key account management thinking we'll get a higher share of the customer
wallet as it is called.
But if customer says I want to be transaction-oriented, I will have two
suppliers, three suppliers, I will never give you business to one.
All of our effort goes to waste.
The same thing about the family market. 

CREATING THE WIN-WIN

Supermarkets triy to make them one stop shop.
But if the customers are transaction oriented, they will scream scheme and
buy this product here, they'll buy some of the products,
some of the place they will shop around.
In fact, I remember when I was teaching at MIT in 65 with my memory,
I think how long back of it was.
We had no today's cellular phone technology.
I remember there was a strike, newspaper strike, there was a husband wife team,
one was in one supermarket, other one in the supermarket had a walkie talkie and
saying that what's the price of the cereal there?
What's the price of the detergent and the butter accordingly?
You cannot be more transaction oriented, price driven.
That's what the consumers are all about till you create value for them.
And hence this emphasis on value that I'm making here.
Value creation is very, very important to understand because more you create value.
And if you create all these three values that we talked about, guess what,
customers surrender their choices.
And that relationship customer says,
I want to be in relationship with you forever.
It's like marriage.
If that's the case, you have no antitrust problems.
You insulate yourself from competition.
You become good citizen, corporate citizen in the society,
you are doing the right things.
You're not manipulating the market.
All the typical marketing problems that we encounter from a societal viewpoint,
go away.
It's a win win win situation now.
And if you have a value chain, how do you create this win win win between you and
the middleman and the customer.
And that's exactly what Procter and Gamble learned.
They decided Walmart is a customer, they need to make money, and
the consumer should be pleased.
And therefore, what they've done is to create a Customer Business Development
process, CBD, the trader is my customer.
How do I create value for him as he creates value for his customers?
Simple idea, very powerful.
And what you've seen is that since the transformation, Procter and Gamble has
been able to sustain its market leadership against very, very good competitors,
like a Unilever on the one hand, [INAUDIBLE], on the other hand.
And in fact, Henkel, by product categories have different competitors, but
these are very large world class companies.
But Procter and Gamble is doing very,
very well in any place that Walmart is a retailer, essentially.
Because of that relationship they've established with Walmart who takes care of
end consumer customers.
That is both a push marketing and a pool marketing.
The three rules are usually separate as I mentioned earlier and
specialized in large Fortune 500 companies because of the functional specialization,
division of labor and all the stuff we teach.
But are often blurred in small and
medium enterprises where the owner is a manager also family run businesses.
And definitely, it is blurred even more in the household market.
But to me, it's just a continuum between a formal organization with a scale was
an investor informal organization with no scale and
therefore the same person plays all three roles.
But we need to understand the three roles.
Role separation and specialization occurs even in SME and personal
accounts when usually the user is not a payer or a buyer as I mentioned earlier.
So this is the presentation that says,
why we have become customer centric, why we are obsessed with customers?
It is not just the right thing to do, but understanding customer economics,
makes us also a profitable viable company and therefore,
we can deliver shareholder value.
As you know in every business there are three stakeholders,
customers stakeholders, investors stakeholders, the third one is employees.
This also matches very well in employee satisfaction.
One of the best books I've read is by a fellow by the name of Harold Rosenbluth.
His grandfather started a travel agency, very small, 100 million or so.
He actually made it into a $45 billion travel agency, one of the bigger ones
competing against Thomas Cook, American Express, all these big boys.
And he wrote a very provocative book called Customer Comes Second.
And this view is very simple, my employees are my products and my agents.
In services industry therefore,
your front line people actually are your products in consultancy, in law,
in accounting, they are your revenue producers, they are your products.
Even if you're selling some of the product in services industry,
the front line person is your line of sight to the customers.
It's like a retailer in the case of Procter and Gamble,
it's the same concept and that's what they've learned to do.
He said, I have to invest in my employees, make them loyal, understand why working
for Rosenbluth is such a great idea and serving customers is a noble cause.
So now, there's no tension between a customer and an employee.
And if the work in tandem you get more efficiency and effectiveness,
you deliver better shareholder value.
In fact, it's very simple distance model.
How do you make money?
Money making is profit equals revenue minus cost.
Profit is what the investors are interested in.
Who controls the revenue?
Is controlled by customers in the marketplace,
in a market driven competitive market.
And who controls the cost?
Employees are the cost controller, cost causers.
If employees are alienated, guess what?
They will actually put more and more cost burden on the company.
There will be indifferent, they don't care, they will abuse,
they will embezzle whatever they do.
So this three way relationship is very key to understand.
And what we will do now is to go into talking about how companies best
in class have created value for their customers. 

CEO ADVICE: DOUG SHIPMAN ON WHICH IS MOST IMPORTANT: PERFORMANCE, PRICE, OR SERVICE

Doug, thank you so much for joining us today.
Sure.
What do you think is most important to a customer, performance, service or price?
Well, I think that depends, and I think it depends on whether it's a not-for-profit or for profit.
I think in the for-profits space that performance and price are often really the aspects in which a person is making the decision about a product or service.
I think performance always comes first.
If I tell you something costs five dollars, the next thing you're going to ask is, well, what is it?
Five dollars for car is a great deal, five dollars for a paperclip is not a good deal at all.
So part of it is performance.
What is it that I'm going to get, and then the price related to that.
Then the service aspect I think is really often the recovery from some bad thing that happens or if there's an aspect of performance that is service, of course, such as I need an oil change for my car.
On the not-for-profit side, I think performance match with an emotional value.
I think it's not only the technical aspect.
If somebody comes to the art center and says, I want to see a concert, t's not only about the performance, it's about how the performance felt.
It's about, did it move me?
It's not just the technical aspects.
My seat was in the right place.
The musicians showed up, they played Mozart, that's what I expected.
It has to be an emotional aspect as well.
I think performance is first, I think service is actually in the not-for-profit sector second, because that service aspect is that personal touch.
It is often what people remember because again, they're not just coming there for a technical issue.
They're coming there for joy, or they're coming there for some emotional engagement.
Then price, I think in that situation is third.
Now, is it worth it to me?
But it is not just based on the technical aspects.
The price equation is a very nuanced piece when it comes to the not-for-profit space.
I think there's one other piece that makes it interesting in the not-for-profit space, because often it's not just that you have a customer, but you have a customer and a potential donor.
So that service aspect and how am I treating someone or rebuilding a relationship, do they feel like they understand the mission of the organization, not just what it was that they were interacting with us.
Today is an extra component when it comes to the performance of the organization.
But I think counter-intuitively, price often is not the prime consideration.
I think that we spent a lot of time on pricing when it comes to the ways
in which we interact with our customers, but I think when we start with performance, that's when we really start
to build the customer relationship.
That's great. Thank you so much. 

HOW TO CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS (PART 3)

INTRODUCTION: CREATING SERVICE VALUE

Who is a customer is a very important understanding.
Customer is a user, a payer, and a buyer.
Each one of those roles affect customer, not a customer, but role of a customer becomes the focus in value creation.
On this slide that you see, the users look for performance value.
The buyers look for service value.
The payers look for price value.
We will now go into examples of companies who have learned how to create these three different values.
Before I get into the detail of each one of them, I want to point out there is not a single company worldwide in my knowledge, who has created all three values with equal excellence.
Companies tend to focus on one of those three values.
Performance value, price value, or a service value, but not all three.
From a customer viewpoint they want all three.
That is why the only company that comes closer to this architecture or thinking is probably Toyota.
I'm not so sure they have done consciously one, but it is there at least.
That's one case where I know that the company is delivering three values consciously or unconsciously.
Second point I want to make is that this value creation is a process.
In fact, we'll have a slide that emphasizes that.
It's really a process whereas most of the marketing is organized into what we call marketing programs.
What is the next sales promotion I want to do?
What is the next advertising commercial I want to create?
What is the next display I want to make a point of sale?
How do we do merchandising these what we call programs?
I do believe that programs mixes very tactical, very myopic of almost and maybe one program canceling the other program because we have never understood integration of these programs or what we now call integrated marketing and integrated marketing communication.
In other words, our publicity people were they talk, our advertising people what the talk, the merchandising, which is the communication of some sort, our logo, etc.
What is the consistency behind?
That's a new discipline in marketing called integrated marketing communication.
Integrated marketing says it's not just the communication which is one piece, but it's your pricing consistent with your product, which is consistent with your distribution, etc.
That's the power of the framework that we have here.
Programs don't do a good job.
They are tactical and they are short term.
The processes actually a longer-term.
You see more integration or more synergy that each one of these processes can create for value creation. Last comment.
The point is that companies are doing all these processes I find fascinating for some other reasons.
But they'll never seen what they do as creating value for customers.
For example, most companies have quality process TQM.
In fact, to deal with European Union, you have to have ISO 9000 certification, which is the quality standard for European markets.
There's no way you can do business there without ISO certification now, ISO 9000.
Now there's some new series, ISO certification, ISO, interestingly.
Given that now the while we may do quality processes, lets us Six Sigma for cost reduction, actually it benefits the customer also.
We already do this quite a lot of work, but we never communicate to the customer and use that as a way of at least making them perceive
the value we're creating and show them the potential value, the hair, which they may not understand.
That's the whole point I'm going to go. 

SERVICE VALAUE: THE MODEL

Let's go into each of
the value creation mechanisms and it's a lot of details,
a lot of material here,
so bear with me, please.
Here's a big chart.
This is a very busy chart,
I wanted to put all of these things into
one chart and that probably is a disadvantage.
We won't go back to this chart,
but we'll break it up into components as we go forward.
As you can see, among many processes,
the three that seem to be very
relevant to create performance value,
which is user role of a customer we're
focusing on is the quality as a process,
differentiation as a process,
and innovation as a process.
I will go into details of each
one of them a little later on.
I will similarly identify
three processes which seem to be
the best in terms of creating value for customers,
for price value, where
the role of the customer is it, payer.
That turns out to be a target costing is a process,
mass customization is a process,
and global sourcing as a process.
Then I have added four value creation processes,
for creating service value or
the buyer value as opposed to
a user value or a pair value,
as I've been emphasizing again and again and again.
Those four are starting at the bottom.
Number 7, front-line information systems.
In other words, more companies as they
deploy CRM as we call it today,
I'd like to still call front-line
information systems one large,
as opposed to back-office,
which is called the MIS Management Information Systems.
FIS frontline is very important to deliver value,
service value to the customers, universal access,
presence everywhere as a value creation,
easy to do business with,
as a value creation,
and the last one is, how do you
create a relational nurture,
which means, what do you do after making a sale?
Those are the kinds of four areas with
which companies are learned how to create value.
Again, as I mentioned,
companies don't even know they're creating value.
At least they're not communicating
value even though they've invested in these processes,
and no company has invested in
all 10 processes at the same time,
or all 10 at any time for that matter.
Some companies will be stronger in one,
other companies will be stronger in the other.
Our job is to learn whichever company does
the best job and can we somehow put this all together. 

HOW QUALITY IMPACTS PERFORMANCE VALUE

So let's go through this analysis
of the performance value.
As I mentioned, performance value the minimum requirement
to be in the game of marketing today is quality.
You may offer a shoddy product below power quality but
the market is going to be limited to about 10, 15% of the total market.
And especially only in places where affordability is an issue give you one of
the better examples.
In the US now we are very much obsessed about cosmetic surgery.
Probably it's a part of the aging phenomenon, partly it's the lifestyle,
whatever the reasons are.
Now cosmetic surgery is often not paid by insurance companies in America.
So I am both a user and a payer, affordability does become an issue, so
guess what's happening?
More and more American consumers are going abroad like in Costa Rica for
example or in Mexico or more in India or in Russia where the cosmetic
surgery is five times to ten times cheaper in America.
This is called medical tourism actually, because you're going there as
a tourist and you're living in a resort two months three months.
But this plastic surgeon takes care of whatever you want to do,
removing tummy tuck as it is called, fattening your buttocks for example.
Enlarging your breasts, for women for example making eye shapes, right,
whatever you do interestingly.
Now quality meal may not be there.
So there's always a market for
a low quality product if affordability is an issue.
Remember I talked earlier consumers don't like to make trade offs,
it's the marketers who make trade offs and get in trouble in the process.
So if we have a market where quality is high but prices are also high,
there always will be a small market with poor quality because
of the affordability issue and those markets maybe in the country,
outside the country etc by and large.
But as we put more quality as a minimum requirement, those markets die.
In countries like India and China this is called the unorganized sector.
Most of these would be unbranded products.
For example in India I just did a research study and
I found fascinating that 65% of all molded luggage like Samsonite,
65% of all the luggage sold is totally unbranded.
It is assembled in a garage by people by putting parts together,
no branding and sold on the street as vendors.
In China it is usually the clones, the fakes, so
you may have the brand name of a top brand like Gucci or Rolex, whatever it is.
But what you get actually is a fake product, totally inexpensive
because many people in China or even abroad can't afford a Rolex watch.
But as we put more quality as a requirement now,
either by government mandate or by management enlightenment and
I think it is the management enlightenment that has made quality as a necessity.
And the reason is that poor quality cost you money.

HOW QUATLITY IMPACTS SERVICE VALUE

There's a lot of literature in
quality management that tells you it
is in your self-interest as
a company to put quality process in place,
which is also called now Six Sigma.
One of the quality process is called Six Sigma.
The real pioneers are Japanese,
again, in this area.
Motorola was the first American company to learn.
They actually created a consultancy practice
out of this one after learning called Six Sigma Process.
GE became the major opinion makers because
General Electric adopted this process
more aggressively across everything they do,
not just manufacturing as Motorola thought.
Of course, GE became also
best-in-class in Six Sigma process,
especially under Jack Welch as the CEO.
Of course, my view is
that that's great from a company viewpoint.
But what is the benefit to the customer?
The logic is very simple.
If you go back to the quality literature,
it's said that if you have a defect in
a component or a raw material,
and as you do value-add,
the defect amplifies in the cost of
the company because in
the value or product you're to fix it,
the whole product, not just a component.
If the component is only five percent of
your total price ex-factory or cost,
if the raw material is five percent,
the defect will cost you to untear down the whole thing,
as in automobile recalls,
you can see what happens.
It's just one part that's defective.
In fact, often the part is insignificant but it is
now required by law
or required because of the litigation.
You get major lawsuits by
the consumer class action suits as
we call them and the penalties are enormous.
Well, if that is true up to the factory,
there is even more value add of
every product consumer customer does.
Do you think I buy my Campbell Soup and eat it as it is?
I actually open the can,
I cut the lead,
I pour things out,
I pour water or milk or whatever I do, I warm it up.
I'm doing a lot of value-added.
Household is as much a production unit
as it is a consumption unit. Simple idea.
In business to business is very obvious
because I'm selling my product to a business customer.
The customer uses that product in his factory.
If that is defective,
cost to the customer is even greater
as he does value-add if something is defective.
Of course, in business to business market,
they have all these stringent quality inspection
, contracts are written.
If you not follow the quality,
there is a penalty against you.
Not limited just in the factory as we know,
but also in IT services nowadays.
I find those contracts are very
oppressive on a supplier if you don't do your job right.
Being softer improvement or software
upgrade or whatever you do with
the penalties are massive.
The supplier has to improve
the quality but there's a value to the customer. 

THE QUALITY WIN-WIN

Now what we learn in business to business market, that customer has a value for your quality process.
Actually, it is equally true in consumer markets.
And that is the turtle's biggest discovery.
That if the car breaks down because you had a defective, poor quality product, consumer pays for it as he is using the car.
It's an annoyance if nothing else, it's a safety problem.
It's nothing else.
And consumers therefore say, I don't know, I get in trouble by buying a product that is quality.
In fact, this cosmetic surgery I talked about, there are documentaries now on American television that says, are we really going overboard with this obsession for cosmetics and personal appearance improvement to a level where we are compromising for
the sake of affordability, the quality that's needed.
We may be jeopardizing our life in the process.
One can understand for terminally ill or diseases like HIV AIDS, etc.
We can understand because that desperation or cancer.
But something that's cosmetic people are saying,
is this the right consumer behavior or not?
But whatever the rationale out there, we're not here to criticize or comment about what consumer values are, we are saying, are we delivering those values?
So quality is even more important to a customer than it is to us.
We just need to do the matrix, calculate what is the economic benefit to the customer with our quality?
What is the emotional benefit to the customer?
What is the convenient benefit to the customer?
All the stuff if you just put the numbers together.
We can show to the customer that our quality actually benefits him, not just to us, it's a win-win situation.
So that's six sigma.
And as I mentioned, Japan was the pioneer in this area.
And again, as the anecdote goals, guess who taught Japan turns out to be one of the American thought leaders by the name of Edward Deming, who was just a statistician, a professor in New York city at NYU I think.
And when Japan was rebuilding its economy, the broad American advisors and they basically the industries, they were not the government to simply said, made in Japan was a cheap quality remains remember poor quality, but affordability was an issue.
So people bought made in Japan products and they knew worldwide that market is just not big enough to serve the market like America, Europe and to actually be export driven economy, you have to put quality process in place.
World was laughing at Made in Japan products and what they did was to improve the quality by bringing outside experts.
They worshiped Demning like a god.
He was a statistician, became a management philosopher, management guru.
He basically showed look statistical process quality control shows you how many defects you're making in your products and your job as a manager is to minimize those defects.
Theoretically, eventually it became a six sigma.
What is a six sigma?
Three standard deviations on the left side of the average three standard divisions on the right side.
And if you look at distribution in statistics, if you go into the third stand division, the probability or the odds is one in billion, which means that you can actually go through six sigma, which means the defect is as low as one in billion production units, billion units of whatever you do.
That was the idea very simple but very powerful.
And you know what happened?
Japanese in the beginning were selling, let's say in automobiles.
So the cheap cars not terribly as good for the American market because we're used to driving big cars, big highways, no energy problem.
I remember paying, would you believe in America 29 cents for a gallon of gasoline in Texas, 39 cents everywhere else.
So it's a cheap energy.
We had no worry about energy costs, maintenance costs, etc.
So we were having this big American cars.
They came out with little commuter cars.
You remember Datsun 210, Honda civic, Toyota Corolla, and guess what happened?
Those were the cheap cars like the Hugo thing I talked about, but Hugo made an entry never moved up in quality.
Japanese did it, very consciously as a nation.
In fact there was a Japan export control agency, Jetro which controlled quality of students in cameras in watchers, in automobiles, everything they did.
That you had to have a minimum quality like you're a president with ISO standards by and large and the rest is history.
Japan became a quality producing nation.
So Made in Japan today commands number one, ranking in the world across the world and in some countries number two, number three, it surpassed made in Germany, which was very good, made in America, which was very good.
And Japan is obsessed with this phenomenon.
So companies have learned from the Japanese process very process driven.
In fact, you will find my analysis.
Several processes were first pioneered in Japan and America has very quickly imitated them to equalize the Japanese competitive advantage and the rest of the world is learning same thing that what Japan can do Korea did it following Japan.
If Korea can do it, china should do it, India, should do it, etc. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF DIFFERENTIATION

Second major way to create value is differentiation.
And this is where we talked about not only functional value, but you could also have a psychological value.
Because you can differentiate not only the physical product, let's say, in design, in quality, raw materials ingredients.
So if you're making a suit, as I'm wearing, well, the fabric the material would be better.
That's a differentiation, the design, the cut would be different, all the stuff we can do.
But we learned through advertising promotion, positioning, as it is called,
that we can also differentiate psychologically.
And that's the biggest power of marketing.
Psychologically, can you differentiate so that product may be the same physically but people perceive that it is
a unique selling proposition, this unique value that they have.
Either because the product differentiated is associated with the socioeconomic group.
It is meant for the working people as beer industry has done.
Because the biggest consumers in America are factory workers and they are the heroes.
Or can you associate with the personalities like show business personalities or sports personalities?
Tiger Woods sells, Michael Jordan sells.
Before that when we had movie stars, way back when Unilever created a lux soap to compete against Procter and Gamble Ivory.
Guess what, Unilever founded the whole thing on differentiation which was all movie stars worldwide.
Even today lux is associated with movie stars because lux was positioned as a facial complexion soap, not a body soap, simple idea like that.
And of course, there's a lot of literature in marketing about how to differentiate, including books like positioning the battle of mind, share of mind the kind of a thing.
But it's positioning differentiation that becomes very key.
And I simply call it in terms of product differentiation which is a physical differentiation of some sort.
And brand differentiation which is more of a psychological intangible value you're creating for your brand by differentiating psychologically by and large.
And I'll just, let me just add around here, right now you have seen all credit cards are the same.
Because they're all underlying Visa Mastercard databases and fulfillment transaction orientation, all the stuff.
But certain banks do a better job, certain card companies in differentiating than others with a clever campaign.
Right now I'm watching a campaign called capital one, no hassle card.
With small clever campaign that actually differentiating, in other ways, what is a very crowded field, you know how crowded this field is in America.
In 2004 I was told American households received pre-approved credit card authorization, about four billion invitations on about 120 million households.
There's not a single day when I don't get on the average, I'm counting now, I begin to measure myself.
This is true as a statistics, there's not a single day and we have a delivery six days a week in America.
There's not a single day when I am not receiving minimum three pre-authorized, pre-approved invitations to subscribe to a card by a card company, they're all alike.
There is a quality process in place which says I'm not a default, there's no liability.
All of them have no annual fee.
All of them have the same incentive for me to transfer from my account from the current card to the new card.
All of them give me the same free mileage.
All the stuff is same.
So people are finding, well, if I cannot physically differentiate, can I differentiate emotionally?
And you can see clever campaigns coming out of that industry because that's a necessity now.
But while we do it for our purposes, consumer benefits,
they see a value and that's a value from a user viewpoint.
And of course, you have seen this value coming through affinity programs, right?
Affinity programs are saying that, if I am a luminous of a given university and the university gives a card, I can identify with that credit card.
As we have done with vanity license plates on automobiles.
As we do, in fact, with clothing where I put my university where I graduated as a name and a logo, that all differentiation.
So this is second major process. 


THE GROWING IMPORTANCE OF INNOVATION

A third process is innovation,
really creating new products and
of course there are several types of innovations.
And again we have a lot of academic research and
in marketing especially about innovation.
While we have studied quite a lot diffusion of innovation,
how do consumers get adapt the innovation?
This is the other side, this is the supply side of innovation.
So you can have small, marginal incremental innovations,
changing the product packaging, for example, changing the size etc.
You can have a major innovation which would be design change like in automobiles
and appliances.
Or you actually can have an innovation even further into radical innovation.
So three categories of innovation.
Again, I don't want to get into the details about how companies do innovation.
My visit how they create value here, that's what my focus is.
And innovation you can create value by simply putting it in a way that
nobody thought about putting it together which is the apple example about the iPod.
There is not a single new technology there,
it's all the same existing technology but they somehow put it together and
made it into one of the most successful products.
Remember this used to be the core competence of a company called Sony.
Isn't that interesting?
Sony was famous for doing these things.
If you go back to the history of Sony, the original founders went into affordability.
They found that the radio was created but it was electrical plugs,
big size console like the television is today.
Very expensive, more like a durable good.
I will buy it once in my lifetime, maybe twice,
I'll do repair maintenance by putting vacuum tubes,
you know how the radio worked in those days, fascinating, right?
Price was so high so the co founders,
remember Japan always wanted to go after markets they can afford technologies and
came out with what they call cheap radio transistor radio.
They didn't have to invent the technology because transistors were invented by whom
they were invented by Bell laboratories for military purposes.
But they were allowed to license it declassified now and Sony got
the license to take the transistors and then making into a portable radio.
So it has two benefits, portability as a benefit.
Second benefit was no need for electricity plugs and
the third benefit was that it's very affordable.
So even the poor people in India, China can have a radio.
Radio reach goes out, which is great for the radio
stations either a government radio station because it wants to reach the masses.
It was also good for the private commercial radio networks like in America
because then they have more audiences out there.
That was the whole idea pretty much, right.
So it was very simple, very simple idea and
that's how they began to come out about in fact,
pretty much innovation that duplicated the same thing as, you know, with Walkman.
What's the Workman is basically personalized radio, but
then they forgot to do innovation or they couldn't deliver it.
Our view is that Sony diversified into content business
by buying out Columbia pictures, Sony music record company.
They're not focused on the traditional business, so they lost eye of the ball,
that was their core competency.
Sony began to then get into of course the PlayStation two went
into the personal computers, etc.
So in the traditional music business, guess what, Apple which is a computer
company suddenly figures out there's a market opportunity, puts it all together.
And of course, Apple is a much smaller company than Sony does not have the silos
or the product divisions and you can now have a cross breeding or
cross fertilization of different core competencies, and that's what Apple did.
So Apple iPod ran with success.
In fact, all successful major breakthroughs you will see the idea was
very simple and they put it together.
So companies do these things, now what is the value to the person?
That's the whole point.
You are creating value in the marketplace, which is why they are buying it.
Users are finding it some value, we need to figure out can we articulate them,
which is a marketing job.
And by the way, I find contrary to all of our expectations,
Walmart in retailing is more of an innovator than people have realized.
It has pioneered so many new things in the way it operates the business.
So I deliberately used Walmart as an example because innovation does not
mean a product innovation.
Innovation may mean a process, innovation is the way you do business.
Walmart logistical system is a pioneer in this industry.
Walmart, data mining,
what they do through scanner data is a pioneering system they've put together.
Walmart warehousing hub and spoke is a pioneering system,
the largest in everything.
Walmart the way they do business in China is very fascinating again, and
they're growing enormously.
So all of these are sort of pioneering things Walmart has done as a way of
creating innovation.
Each one of them has a customer value in the role of a customer as a user.
So these are the three, I'm sure there are more processes out there, but
in my research I found these three were the most dominant one.
And would you believe just in this one area, performance, value,
a company that is good in quality is not necessarily good in innovation.
A company that's good in differentiation is not necessarily good in quality.
So what we have to do is to show you that you need all three, and
there's a pecking order.
Quality is the minimum fast necessary condition.
Once an industry gets equalized on quality, then differentiation takes over,
it looks like that's my analysis that's my belief system.
Once differentiation has run out of its potential by and large for creating value
for the customer, then innovation becomes very much a necessity and necessary.
It's not just a nice thing to do, that's your survival game.
So there's an order built in into the three processes in my presentation
here, okay? 

PRICE VALUE VIA TARGET CLOSING

I will now move on to the next value creation and that has to do with price value.
This is the payroll of the customer as we talked about earlier.
And what I find around here is that there are again three processes that seem
to dominate worldwide.
The process that is probably the longest in place and again began in Japan first like quality is called target costing.
Very simple idea, but probably one of the most powerful ideas.
The idea is that in a non inflationary economy and as you know, Japan was the first one to have a deflationary economy,
which means the home market taught them a lot of lessons.
Rest of the world was highly inflationary.
America also had high inflation in the 1970s called stagflation.
And this can be measured by cost of capital by definition when the interest rates rise you know inflation is high.
Japan had interest rate.
Bank of Japan will loan money to central banks under 1%.
And those banks will loan money, in fact to industrial customers very cheap.
Financing was not a problem because they were desperate to create economic growth.
So in a non inflationary environment, the logic was that the traditional cost accounting and pricing is a bad model.
In industrial age, we learned that best way to maximize profits is that your marginal price, the price of the next unit
you want to sell in the marketplace must equal your marginal cost.
You optimize your profits, which is great.
So our interest was always on understanding costing, cost accounting and what is the marginal cost.
And how low can we price so that the average price and the marginal price put together comes out to be most profitable, right?
Well, Japanese figured out that that's the old model.
That model was anchored to our cost-based pricing or what in defense industry, we call it cost-plus pricing.
Defense contracts are always cost-plus.
Here on my cost, here is my margin open margin and you have to pay me.
And then you have the cost overruns to either done to make more money or I don't know why.
Or in fact to just you can't control because you are betting on the future a technology and you don't know where it will end up in terms of cost structure.
Construction people do the same thing cost-plus here is my transparent open margin, Japanese said that model is wrong.
What we need in the world today is what's called price minus.
We says in any noninflationary competitive markets, is the markets will decide the price, not the manufacturer's.
And therefore, we know the prices will be over next three years, five years, whatever cycle is usually it's a three year cycle.
That in a non inflationary, highly comparative industries prices will erode further and further, let's say on the average 5% a year.
Now that that's just the norm, it depends on the industry.
So they said that three years out, we will have a price pressure of about 15%, let's say.
And you can do a cumulative average by and large, if you wanted to, let's say 15%.
And the question, is what can we do now as managers on a proactive basis to still make money in a declining price environment?
That's called target costing in the simplest way, it's much more detailed than that.
But I'm just going to give you what I consider to be a crystallized summary view of a cliff notes off as it is called. 

THE INTEL EXAMPLE

What is target costing?
The process is very complicated.
It now says that what you begin to do is to break down not the product, but the cost of the product.
Find out what your cost distributions are.
Remember customer distribution revenue, I said it's the same 28-day ratio, same Pareto's law.
That among all your costs, let's say hundred different cost points, maybe the top 20 cost warrants control 80 percent of your cost,
focus on those and somehow manage
them in anticipation of price reduction, is called target costing.
The company that has done very well, that practice that began in the Japanese again in the automobile sector primarily then into appliances,
is now taken over in America by two companies in two different areas.
First one is Intel, but almost accidentally not in a direct correlation, but it's same conclusion especially, and that is Intel.
In the case of Intel, they discovered Moore's law that every 18 months in the shipbuilding business integrated circuit that you make,
you have to double the performance historically, that's what happens.
That the cycle of innovation is so fast that you are to double the performance at the same cost.
You're creating more value for the customer at half the cost, essentially.
Let's target costing in some fashion. That's what they did.
We had the 286 chip than it's in 18 months, you make it absolute deliberately to 386, you make it absolute to 486, for example, and then you start the Pentium series. 
Price-performance ratio constantly goes up, which means the payer now gets a price value for the same capabilities.
It is much more affordable.
Today, computers are enormously affordable.
Microsoft did the same thing with windows.
Both of these industries are fixed cost industries as you know.
In other words, my first chip, if I make I have to build a wave for factory as they call it, and the total cost of design and factory is about $2 billion now.
My first step will be what? $2 billion?
What's the cost of my second ship? Absolutely dropping.
Because in fact, I have no cost, it's just minor chemicals to process the second ship.
If you think that's a very low cost, that's one percent of the original cost or even a tenth of one percent.
In software it's even more aggressive because Windows NT, one of the operating system platforms, $250 million to come out with the operating new system.
Cost of my first copy is 250 million, what's the cost of my second copy?
Nothing. By the way, this is the digital revolution.
All analog technologies are very expensive.
All digital technologies are crushing the price.
Have you seen the price of cameras crashing?
Price of LDC screens crashing.
These are all pioneers originally in Japan.
Then Intel picks it up, Microsoft picks it up with a different approach, but the same conclusion.
But the company that I found fascinating using this practice is in this case, again, would you believe Procter and Gamble.
Whose cases too, we talked about how they learned to be customer-centric, customer being a retailer, trader, etc.
They discovered the same thing out of the Japanese experienced that target costing is absolutely critical because when your customer now is a very large retailer like Walmart.
Walmart has a philosophy of everyday low price, which means they are actually offering the best products at affordable products.
Walmart is another company like Toyota, which seems to manage all three things.
It offers better product, better brand names at affordable prices.
Lower than market, and not lowest, not sale, but lower than especially in rural markets.
As you know, Walmart began in rural America where these brands are not available, and if they were available that were very expensive.
Of course they do it in a customer friendly manner.
There's a greater at the store and all this stuff.
You can read the story about Sam Walton's philosophy and all this stuff we can talk about.
But the point I'm making is that if Walmart is your customer whose philosophy is to deliver always lower prices in the marketplace, they're going to demand price reduction.
No matter how valuable your brand.
Remember, we have this wrong notion that just because I'm a branded product, I can command a higher price.
I don't buy that at all.
Even the branded products there is a price erosion.
My view is that the only way you can sustain the branding differentiation is to control the capacity.
If there is an excess capacity, there always will be price reduction for branded products as well as commodity products, it makes no difference. That's what happened.
P&G figured out to keep Walmart as a loyal customer.
I talked about traders have no loyalty attached to the emotion of experience and consumption, they are just buyers and sellers.
Economics will drive their thinking anyhow, they're business people and therefore, P&G, Procter and Gamble put together a target costing practice.
You will now have the customer profitability analysis.
They figured out the cost aligned around customers.
By the way, I'm told that is now even more secret formula, that activity-based costing, then Coca-Cola secret formula in making the Coca-Cola syrup, for example.
Target Costing. How can we create a new way of doing manufacturing and supply chain, in general, so that three years from now, when there's a 15 percent price reduction, I can make more money?
My margins will increase with price reduction.
Not by price increase obviously, but by cost reduction.
That's called target costing in a simple way. 

HOW TO CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS (PART 4)

THE IMPORTANCE OF MASS CUSTOMISATION

a second platform that has come in and this again we believe began in Japan.
But although there's no real like quality, I know exactly where it came from.
Six sigma, all the stuff we don't know region but most of the books in mass
customization as a process are written by american scholars and practitioners.
And the idea again is very simple that in the industrial age we had the notion
of economies of scale in manufacturing there's a setup cost,
the setup cost is high and therefore if you only make one unit and
you have to reset again cost will be high.
There are no economies of scale.
If the setup cost is high, you make more units at the same time.
For example this presentation I'm videotaping
the people who are my producers and directors.
Tell me that look I can do it two hours if you want it or six hours.
Set up cost is big.
So please figure out how many hours you want to do it and
I will set it up accordingly.
Right.
Well that's the old economic model in automobile.
That's how they built up factories in appliances,
that's how they built the factories.
The new model says that can I actually create the economies of
a masculine production but I can make different items and
different variety at the same time to satisfy a market.
Why this is important because the customer needs are getting more diverse with
changing demographics, demographic diversity is enormous.
Worldwide age diversity, income diversity,
lifestyle diversity, ethnic diversity all the stuff and
affordability but affordability is not widening as much.
So how do you manage to offer somebody a product which is uniquely designed for
them but without charging custom prices.
That's called mass customization.
It's a process, it's a flexible manufacturing as a word and
some companies have learned how to do it better than others.
I will use two examples that I know about As to how these companies
shifted their manufacturing or
distribution because this concept can be applied like 6- everywhere.
One of course is a Motorola company again like six sigma.
They were sort of the first users of this process.
There's a pager factory in florida I'm told.
Which can make as many as 20 million
combinations of pagers with zero inventory.
It's a it's a flexible manufacturing.
No product is ever built before.
Demand comes in.
By the way dale computer does something similar.
Cisco is trying to do the same thing and
therefore you're basically demand driven manufacturing as it is called.
You make your manufacturing processes flexible.
Benetton used to do that thing.
They will have actually retail stores telling what color of sweaters they need
and then they will make it accordingly.
So your whole inventory control inventory management is more efficient and
I have an example better than that a little later on.
So here is Motorola who puts this flexible manufacturing process and guess what?
Their six sigma goes up from 5.3 to 5.9 which means
defect in building a pager goes down the cycle time rapids up.
It's also called mean lean manufacturing?
L. E A N.
Or lean operations?
Sometimes that actually in operation is a bigger concept.
This is one process inside.
I want to talk about mass customization primarily
because it's very easy to understand also.
And so around here for example their cycle time has increased.
It should take four hours to make a page.
Today takes only four minutes to build a pager.
And they have a third process called T.
C. S total customer satisfaction.
I don't know the numbers but they claim customers are more happy.
Who are their customers?
Their customers are paging retailers or paging service companies and
they want different variety by different markets by geography.
So actually they can do the assortment which was the job of a retailer right?
At the factory.
And how do you do this thing?
I always have compared this to a french restaurant.
Was a chinese restaurant.
Think about a french restaurant.
How big is the variety in the menu highly limited because chef is very proud about
each recipe.
It took him many years in a culinary school and
experience to create that recipe is very fussy about each ingredient.
Right?
Very limited number of entrees, maybe 5, 6.
How are the prices very expensive?
How often people eat at a french restaurant only occasionally.
Like an anniversary birthday graduation.
How many people can you bring?
Only limited people because it's very very expensive.
How long does it take, it takes forever to get your meal at a french restaurant.
Right.
And what is the attitude?
Remember we talked about tCS customer satisfaction?
What's the attitude?
I am the chef, you will eat what I tell you is good for you?
No variations.
If you say, can you make this slightly different?
You're violating my religion here?
My tradition, I'm the chef is the, is the pride of an artist.
Are you with me?
Well, in a highly diverse market, it does not work if the market was homogeneous,
everybody ate only french food only in french restaurant.
And they're always wanting the same thing in a homogeneous market.
You can still be okay.
So contrast that with a chinese restaurant or now a thai restaurant,
you know from Thailand it's the same thing in a small restaurant.
How big is the menu?
You see 100 and 20 items easily listed.
Right. Do you think he has 100 and
20 separate recipes?
Never went to culinary school, Right.
What he has is six ingredients, seven ingredients, 45 condiments.
It mixes and matches that's mass customization and
it delivers any way you want it.
So you say, I want a little spicy food.
He said, okay, sure.
You never get a new answer from these guys.
Have you noticed that any variety you want?
Because they have figured out how to do mass customization in their
kitchen operations?
It's just mix and match.
It's like what we do with us.
You know buffets nowadays, right?
Breakfast buffet is the same way hotels have learned restaurant,
you know breakfast restaurants have learned about hotels especially
I've learned that buffet is a simpler idea.
Let customer make a choice of his own, he puts his own stuff.
That's it if I otherwise it's a long waiting time.
The whole thing same three things cycle time, you know,
quality of students and TCS total all three processes come together
right in mass customization and how are the prices pretty reasonable.
So I want to go more often.
Right, repeat business.
I want to bring more people obviously.
And of course how fast can you get the milk?
In fact I just placed an order.
I'm talking with my friend and all of a sudden the meal comes and how did you
know, did he anticipate right kind of a thing we think about and they make money.
I remember in the eighties I went to one of the new Hawaii islands.
That was open of Malacca.
It used to be a lepers colony and
at the time obviously people were not allowed to settle there.
I went there.
Native population is only 5 6000.
It's a tourist place essentially.
There are no more plantations by Del Monte you know for for pineapple and
all the stuff.
It's becoming more tourism from agriculture becoming eventually probably
more in fact some sort of an industrial activity And I was absolutely surprised
even Mcdonald's can't make money burger king, can't make money.
And there are two chinese restaurants.
I talked with the guys, they said this is the way we make money.
Of course the cost structure is also hidden because they don't charge
the family time as a labor cost.
Obviously, you know, ingredients are very low cost.
So affordability, price value is all about affordability and
what they do is make the food affordable without compromising on the quality.
That's the whole point and that's what they do.
That's called mass customization. 

DEMAND-DRIVEN MANUFACTURING

That's called mass customization, Motorola did it in the factory, another company
that I identified with I had their senior executives come and teach in my class.
I learned about them, I got obsessed about what they do, their absolutely best in
class is or used to be best in class, it's called L'eggs pantyhose.
The finest distribution system I've ever seen 120,000
profit centers each rack, they says is women's pantyhose.
They shifted the whole distribution, which was the innovation, process innovation.
In the old days when women were primarily homemakers,
they wore pantyhose only on social occasions when they went out for
a dinner in a party, something like that.
As women began to work outside the family,
working women phenomenon grew in America since the late 60s.
Pantyhose became a daily necessity,
pantyhose sold only through the department stores behind the counter.
It used to come in cellophane wrap things, product packaging was so lousy in
the whole supply chain it was one of those hard products to manage physically.
So what they did was very interestingly and
pantyhose in a cellophane wrap behind a cardboard looked ugly.
It was not inviting, it was emotionally not bonding, so they did a fantastic
research and they figured out as more and more women are working.
They want convenience of daily shopping, which comes surprisingly in
fact primarily from grocery stores, not from department stores.
They don't go to department stores every day, they go to grocery store every day,
that's what they did.
So they shifted the distribution system put the pantyhose in an egg, egg was put
in a decorative rack, colorful eggs are out there people get excited emotionally.
It's an inviting place to buy the product, product has an emotional value now,
distribution matches properly.
Price was affordable at the same time and
what they did now the mass customization aspect for
L'eggs is not on the price side as much as on the variety that they customize.
So if you go to the city of New York,
Manhattan Island you have such cultural diversity.
You have the African American Harlem, the black people, Harlem as it is called
the Spanish Harlem the Puerto Ricans who have settled Hispanic people.
And you have the typical WASP population, White Anglo Saxon Protestant,
affluent people, all within maybe 4, 5 miles.
Each mile is a territory and each mile on the rack
while they make 120 separate SKUs,
stock keeping units in the factory.
Guess what?
The only have on any one rack six or seven matching exactly to the right audience.
So the variety that you get in the African American Harlem is
different from the Hispanic column.
Which is different from the WASP population,
upper east side as it is called in Manhattan, okay?
Because women's bodies are different, textures, color is different,
skin color is different etc.
They learned how to do mass customization and this is true throughout the country,
it's a massive, massive operation.
Now how do they manage all this stuff again, in all these cases like Motorola,
if you build a product and you offer, is very expensive.
You create variety, nobody wants to buy, so again,
what they've done is to start with demand driven manufacturing.
Key idea again as opposed to manufacturing, driving demand,
which is what we do in selling.
If you can't sell the product, get rid of it through, sale at the end of Christmas,
Christmas cards are sold next day, 50% of something like that,
that actually is no value creation.
These guys know how to create value, so 120,000 racks, guess what,
I was told this is in the eighties, so I don't know what it is today.
I was told that, do you know all of the truck drivers are women,
which was news to me.
I never thought women were truck drivers and
I said how do you motivate them to drive trucks.
These are light trucks obviously,
they have an enormous power over the retailer, especially in the grocery
store because the grocery is not interested in pantyhose.
Here's what we call the meat and produce guy okay, so
now you have an enormous power to put the rack where you want it.
So you do merchandizing, tremendous power you are the woman, you are the user,
you know exactly how it will sell what the consumers are looking for
because buyers are mostly women, hopefully all women, right?
Interestingly, that's what exactly what they do and
they do twice a week sweep of the whole nation.
What that means, they take the rack out the eggs as they are called are missing,
that means customer took it went to the counter.
And if the scanner technology was everywhere,
they don't need this way of counting because scanner will give
you information through, the checkout counters.
But quite a lot of the racks are in let's say in a hotel news and gift shop into
you know public places where obviously there are no scanner technologies as yet
as you have in supermarkets or as mass merchandisers like walmart etcetera.
So they still have this manual system to some extent twice a week to make a sweep.
And all of that is brought to the regional distribution centers from where
they know and tell the factory which turns out to be haynes, H A N E S,
which is to be their manufacturing arm.
So this particular distribution company, lex pantyhose manufacturing is done and
manufacturing basically does manufacturing after their toll.
Now, why does this model work?
It works with a very simple idea in marketing which says if it is a convenient
product, not a shopping good consumers will buy the same thing again.
Again remember my earlier concept, I talked about consumers like
to reduce choices in repeated, non non non critical products.
Too much shopping is too costly.
It's not worth it.
You will get the same answer anyhow.
So this has become a convenience product like milk or bread or something like that.
And you begin to buy accordingly and
therefore they know that all we need is to replace the particular S.
K. U. S. That are sold perfect model and
they get their cost very low in the process called mass customization.
It says I can personalize to individual markets individual customers even
as the banking does personal banking, for example,
as the airlines do with all of the databases through cRS as they call it.
We'll talk about that later on.
That's what they do.
So lex pantyhose is a beautiful,
beautiful story about how you can do mass customization in distribution.
Now, retailers like target are learning how to do mass customization by
store by store.
Companies like Home Depot walmart retailers are saying our stores are not
the same.
We are putting stores in highly affluent neighborhoods.
We are putting store in working class neighborhoods.
We are putting stores where in fact women are working,
we are putting stores where women are now networking just goes on.
How do you manage?
You need to put a merchandise on the floor, which is must customized the same
concept down streaming further into the retail environment.
What began in the factory and before factory.
What might have begun in the raw material and the component level by and large 

GLOBAL SOURCING

The last practice and the one that is just beginning to happen in a big, big way is global sourcing.
In other words, buying not from just country by country.
So if I'm doing business in this country, I buy from suppliers in that country.
Or if I'm doing business in this country, I buy from other countries kind of a notion.
This is a very strategic initiative called global sourcing.
It simply says that look, I am a retailer, let's say Walmart in this case, and I would like to serve customers all over the world.
But who said that Chinese customers will buy Chinese products, or Chinese customers will buy American products, or Chinese customers will buy Indian products?
I don't care.
My job is to serve the market, shape the market by sourcing all over the world.
So Walmart at one time prided that they will only sell made in America products.
Remember that used to be the slogan in the early days is gone.
It is one of the largest global sourcing which is their core competency as a process.
Source the products anywhere in the world which will meet their quality assurance and the price, and the logistical systems that those companies can offer by large.
So they buy products from all over the world.
In fact this is another area why I get upset about branding.
We have put emphasis, the largest single brand sold in the wall in luggage, is probably unlabeled brand made by some Chinese manufacturer and
never put a center of advertising, whereas we think Samsonite is the largest luggage.
Because it's the power of the retailer here, people buy whatever is at Walmart that trust Walmart, they think values are there, prices are good.
Walmart figured out how to create price value for the customers, it is the perception at least, right, and that's what happens.
So Walmart is now shopping enormously sourcing from China, some products, they are now looking seriously at India.
I'm told that from a $3 billion sourcing done today, they're ramp to about $30 billion really quickly, because India is becoming now a major supplier of products.
Let's if you go to automobile parts, all the after service is called TB entire batteries accessory market, products are made in India more not just in China or
in Eastern European countries or in Brazil or wherever.
Yeah, that's called global sourcing.
There's a new practice emerging, related to global sourcing is a second element which is called outsourcing, and that's called the BP of business process outsourcing.
And that's the other area where countries like Ireland, which captured the call centers Philippines, which capture the call centers in India then
began in India is the dominant call center operator in the world.
Almost 40% of all outsourced call centers are working or you are in a house in India, because it's just like a clustering,
the country has created the core competency of human capital databases, infrastructure to dominate the market.
Just as the dominating diamond business, India is the largest diamond cutter in the world.
For the same reason, they have the expertise, they have the supply function to cut the diamonds and all the stuff by large.
But is it sustainable?
We don't know.
Down the road we think countries like Canada actually may become as much in fact competitive in the call center business as India for example.
But that's the global sourcing, idea is that I am not going to be loyal to a country, and even a country made in country image, or even a brand name,
I'm going to be loyal only to my customers in creating a price value, affordability value.
And what I will do around here is to put my quality standards in this case as a retailer, same thing as a manufacturer.
And I will make sure that I find the suppliers who will make those products for me, meeting my quality standards and the price points that I want.
Interesting change.
And therefore quality assurance comes now from a retailer, not from a manufacturer.
In fact, the pioneer of this concept of quality of students 100 years ago was a retailer in England called Marks and Spencer.
Remember Marks and spencer.
All of their brands were private label because no manufacturer ever had any label branding and manufacturing was just coming in, there ahead of the curve.
So they decided they will identify the right makers, nurture them well, buy their products sourced properly.
And since British empire was worldwide, they bought different products made in different countries.
They were the first people in global sourcing.
Same idea that was cloned in America by two companies in the grocery business by a supermarket called A&P.
You might remember Atlantic and Pacific, coast to coast, first supermarket that went across the country.
And all the brand names there were actually private label.
I have personal experiences because I like to drink tea, and I just didn't like the traditional brands I was getting so I would go to A&P.
And then a private label brand because the sources from someplace Kenya, Ceylon or Sri Lanka, I don't care.
And that tea which is a loose tea was absolutely the right thing for me.
I love that tea.
And I would go, so I was loyal to that brand made by N&P.
And not necessarily to Lipton, or Brooke bond, or now Tata tea from India or whatever they are.
So they know how to create price value.
Very affordable?
In fact more affordable than the other brands who are advertising enormously, and had a loyal fanatic loyalty.
That's what A&P did in grocery products before brands became significant from manufacturers, and the same thing was done by Sears.
Sears created world class brands by quality standards.
Sears tough skins brand of jeans was better designed, better materials than Levi's.
Sears craftsman lawn mower is better designed and better made than Toro, which is the quality standard.
Sears craftsman tools are better designed and better made from a construction worker user viewpoint, than for example, Black and Decker.
Sears brand of diehard battery is a better designed battery than Exide.
I can go on and on and on.
Sears was the quality assurance you see.
Remember at that time retailers were the quality assurance, not manufacturers, because manufacturing we're just transitioning from agriculture age to
the industrial age, that was the whole thing.
So global sourcing the practice really is in retailing first and then the manufacturers are learning from that practice.
So this is three processes on the price side. 

SERVICE VALUE:FRONTLINE INFORMATION SYSTEMS

Let me go to the last area which has to do with the service value.
Sometimes I also call this as personalization value.
To make it three P's.
Performance value, price value, personalization value.
But I want to go back to the traditional language,
which is what I have used in
my earlier writings and talking about this one is service value.
Because that's what the industry uses as a language.
I've found four processes companies have used to create service value.
The first one really is frontline information systems.
The first place where this was really done under the legacy systems or what's called client-server architecture was in the airline industry.
Pre deregulation or Open Skies in America.
Large carriers like American Airlines created a Sabre System,
S-A-B-R-E, United Airlines created Apollo system.
Delta third-largest had a world span in a partnership with other carriers.
That is dedicated systems where it began
to downstream databases to the travel agents in those days.
Travel agents would have a dedicated desktop.
It's very similar to Bloomberg Financial Services.
You get the terminal and therefore on the terminal or you're new now they offer it on your PC, but in those species were expensive.
They built dedicated workstation, says they're called client server.
That server is in the back a storage thing and a client is a place where the person doing the work using the typical CRT and all this stuff. No intelligence.
The intelligence in the back is that sever essentially that's what they did.
Sabre system was therefore having, and of course, they offer that as a service to travel agent, whose job was made much easier.
In fact, they could print the tickets if they wanted to.
They could do the frequent file mass properly.
They can have special meal request.
All of this was done from a airline viewpoint to get
the cost out because they had to otherwise do all this work in their back-office there.
This is all done by travel agent, making it very easy for travel agent to do who was their customer at that time who can interface with the customer essentially and the user customer.
And of course, as you know, largest market in
airline is not as much personal travel market, but it is business travel market, corporations are your customers.
Today, you know that this is so downstream frontline information systems.
Now it goes from there to my PC.
More and more airlines are now web-based and simply say come to the PC.
A true PC somehow wireless or wireline get into my database and you can do your own seat assignment.
You can make your request.
You can buy your ticket, e-ticket as it is called.
Have you seen at the airports now we have this electronic kiosks and the manpowers behind the counter is reduced enormously.
That's a front-line information system.
In fact, I'm told people and I feel the same way as a traveler and a frequent traveler actually, I like to deal with that kiosk more so than the person.
It's very user-friendly, very similar to banking did it.
It's another frontline infamous system called ATM machines and now online banking.
This whole frontline information system is beginning to take an enormous service value primarily because it is becoming internet based.
Which means it is capable of all three things which no IT technology ever did before.
It is a tool for information gathering.
I'm told today that as much as 70 percent of all car buyers actually go to the web first and do the search, let's call it Google, Google search, and before they go to the dealer.
Isn't that interesting? It can provide you information.
I don't have to go to the dealer.
It's a hassle, remember consumers have no time.
But I can also do a email exchange.
If I have a question, I raise that question, there's somebody who says, here's your answer.
I can do the transaction at the same time.
I can do interaction.
I can do exchange, which is transaction, and I can do information, the three platforms of marketing.
Internet is the only one that delivers all three.
Television delivers only one, maybe two.
Telemarketing does some but not others, etc.
This is a very powerful tool and more and more frontline information systems will become the norm.
Therefore the service value go up.
What is the service value?
It is availability anyplace, anytime I want and in a convenient manner.
The second dimension is convenience as we talked about earlier. 

SERVICE VALUE: UNIVERSAL ACCESS

Second thing to do is universal access, which is the point I was making, online ordering has become very much a possibility.
But I want to talk about the second part, I mean, we all know about online shopping and online marketing, eBay type phenomenon, all the stuff we know.
I will not go into the details.
My view is universal access, by the way, one of the best examples of universal access on which the company actually made money turns out to be Coca-Cola.
While they talk about branding and secret recipe and all this stuff, the real core competency of Coca-Cola if you analyze it is distribution.
In the remotest jungles of the Amazon, if nothing else, the nitty will give you a bottle of Coca-Cola.
First time when they enter India, which was in 60's, for example, late 60's, I was doing research on population control in those days,
you had to control the population was the theory, but the governments as opposed to humans, are an asset.
They thought humans are a liability to the society kind of a theory and that's very interesting.
At that time the idea was that how do we control the population.
Of course, you can educate the people, but how we distribute contraceptives.
One of the ideas implemented in India was that we can take this large multinationals, there was a tea company called Brooke bond, which is owned by Lipton, which is owned by Unilever now, which had the massive distribution system in the remotest villages of the country.
People sold as agents.
Even in the 60's they had like 450,000 agents each one selling a pound off lose tea in a box.
On a bicycle, they will go, walking.
They're the middlemen, they are the retailers, agents as they call them.
Coca-cola was another one.
Coca-Cola core competency is not just branding and secret recipe the product and branding, but it is also the user side, but it is also the distribution side.
Access, universal access.
That universal access now is getting more and more affordable an equalizer with the Internet.
A small company can provide universal access, as we have found through eBay, or a large company can provide equal access.
This is less of a competitive differentiation.
It's becoming a necessity.
You have to offer universal access to be just in the business, just like you have to have quality just to be in the business, just like you have to have prices which are competitive just to be in business kind of a thing.
That's universal access.
I do want to talk about what I call there in the slide, the pizza industry analog.
The debate is going on that online shopping or online retailers versus regular retailers, who is going to survive in the long run?
My view is that you have to do business both ways.
Customer does not like to be steered in one direction or the other by marketers.
They want freedom of choice in terms of location and time.
I call it the pizza industry model, or what we call brick and click model.
In pizza industry, what happens?
You have all three choices.
If I want to dine in, I can go to the pizza restaurant, like a Pizza Hut.
If I want to have it delivered, which is the other extreme, I order it and Domino's Pizza will deliver at my home precisely on time or within a window of time.
If I want to pick it up because I'm going to be on that way for whatever reason I want to pick it up.
I don't care. Maybe because I'm going to eat the thing on my way someplace.
Well, I can stop and pick it up.
I just do ordering, any three ways.
Anyway the customer wants, needs kind of an option.
That's basically universal access.
Universal access means I create no bottlenecks for the customer from a time and a location.
It's called anytime, anywhere, access by large. 

SERVICE VALUE: EASY TO DO BUSINESS

The third process is called Easy To Do Business with.
Which means that the transaction that I do, whether it's information, interaction we talked about and exchanges are three things were in marketing I do between a customer and a supplier.
From a customer viewpoint, he says, the way the company does business, it's easy to a business.
At the end of the experience, I like them rather than getting upset, angry, or frustrated.
Some companies are good at this and others are not good at.
The best-in-class here are companies like what used to be Nordstrom.
Tom Peters in his book In Search of Excellence, enormously praised Nordstrom as one of those in fact, service oriented companies where it was very easy to do business.
The legendary stories where, that a lady comes angrily bringing, pair of tires I guess, and simply say, my husband doesn't like these tires, you must take it back and the clerk says, do you have a receipt?
He says I have no receipt.
The clerk says all right, I'll take the tires back.
How much did you pay? Think about that one.
Didn't even ask for verification and all the stuff.
She said I paid this much amount.
Fine, no problem.
It turns out Nordstrom does not sell tires.
Now, this can be abused by the customers, we understand that.
In fact, I'm writing a separate book called Dumb Marketing, where customers outsmart business marketers.
There is an abuse, but what percent it is?
Can we somehow monitor?
What they do is very smart.
The front-line people, the sales clerks, are at a level of education as well as training that they know whether the customer is genuine or not and does the customer do business with Nordstrom or not?
I've seen the same thing at the Disney Land, Disney World, any Disney location.
You see the friendliness of the front-line people there.
The way they manage crowds probably is one of the best things that governments can learn how to manage a large crowds.
How can you make them stand in line so long and still be happy?
Have you seen all the things they do in a typical Disney World or Disney Land and rethink that they are basically easy to do business with one large.
Nowadays more and more companies with the Internet and I can have a tickets printed ahead of time for an entertainment event.
I don't have to stand in line, make it easier and easier.
Easy to do business with, in terms of information gathering, in terms of interaction, in terms of transaction and post-sale experiences.
Which means if I want to return the product, if I have a complaint, how do I handle all that thing?
And by the way that's post-sale is where I find American Express is again one of the better companies.
If you have any problem in your bill that has come in, or if you have a problem because you lost your credit cards something.
To recovery it, what they do at the process is one of the better models in the world, one of the best practices that we have seen. 

SERVICE VALUE: RELATIONAL NURTURE

The last area has to do with, in terms of building the service value for a customer is what is called relational nurture.
The idea primarily is that I want to make this customer, customer for life.
It's called share of wallet, customer for life and there are all metrics in marketing.
My view here is I'm not interested in that one as interested in seeing if we do this relational approach to customer, how customer benefits, what is in it for the customer?
What it says is that from a customer viewpoint, he says, I don't want to shop around.
You are making my job easier because shopping around is expensive, is transaction cost.
In fact, there's a transaction cost theory created by Coles in economics, he got the Nobel Prize theory of the firm and Williams [inaudible] wrote a great book in economics on transaction cost analysis.
I find consumers are the best place to understand transaction cost analysis because they engage in so many transactions and the numbers for consumers are so large, they really are smarter than in a business to business market with transaction cost theory is used quite a lot.
In other words, it is not worth shopping of effort, not worth searching for information.
As I said, most consumers like to reduce choices.
Now, I would like to reduce choice only if I know that you will be trustworthy.
Only if I know that you as a supplier will have an integrity so you will never violate my trust.
Most relational nurture in a company's put together in terms of saying, how do we build trust as a process?
How do we build integrity as a process?
Because that is what the customer is looking for, that's for the benefit of the customer?
Now, there are four service value processes, three price value processes, three performance value prices, 10 processes.
As I said earlier, no company does this everything right.
What I usually do as an audit in a company. Very simple.
We're going to the company just like any audit, anchor ourselves in the company, two days, three days, whatever it takes.
Going to all cross-functional, it's not just marketing people who create this value, please.
Everybody creates this value.
Different functions, different organizations are involved.
We go and do the audit, and then we do an assessment.
Either we do assessment ourselves based upon some numerical processes, or we even asked the company people to make an assessment.
In over 40 years of teaching now, I find fascinating and I'm beginning to believe that there's something called behavioral economics in
some fashion which is becoming an interesting.
I was trained in psychology and statistics so I like this trend.
Economists always believes that unless you have hard numbers, everything is subjective.
Till they found out that if you measure the GDP, which is hard number to econometric forecasting techniques like time series, as opposed to if you ask 100 economies and say, what do you think is your estimates subjective as to what the GDP will be next quarter, two quarters, whatever it is, guess what?
The assessment of 100 economists just average alone, not even weighted, gives you a better forecast than time series data. Isn't that interesting?
I'm finding more and more that management somehow has integrated all the experiences to make a judgment and the diversity of judgment by management people is very important to understand what is the different scores they give and because often the problem-solving companies that if given process,
he's done by one department and the other department has a different image of or the department so perceptions are very important to capture actually so we do it both ways.
You can get a rating done and you are now aggregate all the scores, I can do more fancy statistical modeling if I wanted to and all this stuff
but just simple tool is very powerful as an audit and guess what?
Across several companies I've done this work, highest score any company ever has got is about 60 out of 100.
What does that tell me? Just like quality thinking as a philosophy, it's no longer a maximum standard like Six Sigma, it is continuous improvement,
there is no end to improvement in creating value for customers.
Which also makes sense because we're just when you're delivering a given value to the customer, guess what happens psychologically, behaviorally?
Customers want more, customers want different.
You made yourself obsolete, giving that value, the escalation of expectation arises.
The game says that you are constantly in what's called the Kanban in Japanese language, continuous improvement process.
These 10 processes are a journey, not a destination and what you want to do is that in some journeys, you are much further ahead than other journeys for whatever reason, your historical background, competitive pressures, we don't care but how can we make all of them go faster and faster on the journey is what we tried to do.
If you look at it, the weakest point surprisingly, in all of these areas turns out to be when it comes to performance value, the biggest struggle and
the lowest scores companies get is in innovation.
In the price value, the lowest score and the biggest struggle is global sourcing and in service value,
the lowest scores they get surprisingly is universal access, which surprises me because it's so easy to
do at the same time. That's what you do. 

SERVICE VALUE: CONCLUDING COMMENTS

This is my presentation.
I will just conclude in a moment.
We started by showing how customer centric orientation is no longer a marketing phenomenon, but a corporate phenomenon.
The CEOs are thinking from a customer viewpoint because we have an aging of the population.
We have customer retention economics better than customer acquisition.
We have this Internet as an enabling tool that can make us more customer centric and we have this global competition.
Then we looked at its strategic advantage.
That if you break down your economics account by account,
you see something below the surface that actually may be more insightful like so much of distance is anchored as you grow your market share, you increase your cross subsidies by customers, by products, by SKUs, by geographies.
However, you do it, and that is your biggest weakness.
I call it the curse of incumbency.
Then we talked about in fact, how the definition of a customer changes.
A customer is really three customers.
From a role definition viewpoint,
a customer is a user, a payer and a buyer.
We talked about how there are two underlying dimensions, what you do and how you do.
What you do has two components.
Product itself, service, as well as the price value.
How you do is the bedside manners, as we call it in healthcare.
In professional services, we call it bedside manners, essentially.
Then we talked about how these three different values are created by customers.
The performance value, the price value, and the service value, or personalization value by different processes.
So here is my conclusion.
Value creation, I have begun to believe because I was trained in marketing, that value creation is through marketing programs like this flavor of the month sale or this flavor of the month, clever advertising campaign.
I believe there is a more sustainable long-term value creation by focusing on processes and not just on programs.
In fact, if I have to make a choice, I would rather link to our process more than the programs.
Smarter companies have learned that processes are the best place to invest, the capital, the management time and talent to create value for customers.
Value creation is not just a process, but I call it a process obsession.
More recently, this became the transformation at General Electric.
They became process obsessed.
Six Sigma is a process for example.
That's the fundamental shift in most of these companies that once they buy a given process and they do all the economic research receiver this viable or not because you're to invest time money, sometimes capital dollars, they begin to get obsessed.
It becomes a religion, orthodoxy sometimes, which I always worry.
Yes, you need an obsession up to your point, but you also need the flexibility because there's no one single process, it will be multiple processes.
So far I have not figured out how to integrate those 10 processes.
I'm learning myself, which is my next phase of research that I'm going to do in this area.
Value creation is a continuous process.
My earlier comment, there is no upper limit of value creation.
There is no upper limit of this process, there is not optimal point, there's no asymptotic upper limit, as we call it in statistics.
It's a continuous process improvement.
Just when we thought we were reaching a limit, there's the next plateau that comes about.
It's a Kanban continuous process.
The last point is that the value creation generally is delivered by a company, our value for the customers if they do a cross-functional team.
Six-Sigma people will tell you it does not work, if you just do it within a given function.
You have to have a cross-functional team working together.
As it is true in target costing, as it is true in innovation, we are finding out more and more as it is true in front-line information systems.
All areas that we've talked about.
I hope you have enjoyed this presentation.
This is one of several I'm doing as you know.
We are basically recording different learning experiences that I have done through academic research, through consulting, through advising governments and the companies, and putting it together into a framework.
So this was a framework on how do we create value for our customers. Thank you very much. 

INTERVIEW 1

Why has there been so much interest in marketing since the 1980s on customer orientation?
The main reason, as I mentioned earlier, focusing on customer orientation
is the emergence of market economy philosophy worldwide.
Governments used to regulate markets from a policy viewpoint to what I call an ideology driven world.
As ideology driven world began to collapse, especially the collapse of communism, all the governments basically said free market processes is a better way.
In other words, what business always believed in surprisingly the government's considered that argument.
They simply said, let's have the free market process, so a market democracy, if you wanted to use the word, let it take it over if there are any abuses
against that market democracy by businesses, we will then punish them enormously.
Which is a very different thought than simply saying, we presume that you will commit market fraud and therefore we will not even allow me
to do that business, kind of a notion.
To me that is really the fundamental shift.
What has happened therefore is fascinating that governments are now want to be marketers.
I'm asked for example to see if I would think about nation branding.
The branding thing we do for products and services, governments want to brand the nations.
Governments are saying, can you teach us supply chain management?
Government are also saying in fact, now by the way, we need to do citizen relationship management, which is like customer relationship management.
We don't understand our constituents very well.
This is going beyond the typical use of marketing in political elections.
We have seen this enormous rise, which is mostly advertising, promoting.
Now they really want to understand constituents, citizens constituents as a market.
They believe that marketing has a discipline, a practice, a methodology that can be very helpful.
All of this has ultimately resulted into that.
To me, that's the biggest factor.
If I had to add a second big factor, I think clearly the emergence of the Internet and the crash of the cost of digital technologies so that companies
today can store information forever.
For example, the cost of storage today on a memory chip is less than cost of paper.
It's cheap, it's free.
I call it like breathing air.
[inaudible] stick off a little digital device I can have, I don't know how many megabytes of capacity.
What started with a floppy disk, what started CD RAMs,
what started with DVDs, now into that little thing, I can store so much of information.
The cost per content, how would you measure it is so low that I have complete record of the customers' behavior over time, which enables me to
at least look at it from a customer viewpoint, which was not possible at one time.
Those are the two main factors. 

INTERVIEW 2

I like the three roles of a customer framework.
It's simple and understandable, but don't you think customers look for more than performance, price, and service value?
That's very true that in the presentation I only talked about in the three roles of a customer performance value, price value, service value.
Now what I'm doing actually is to show that those are the minimum requirements.
Those are the universal values, customers.
Anytime, anywhere in the world in educated, non-educated, in rich, poor, gender differences, ethnic mix, no different, they're all the same.
That's the universal values, as we call them.
Now, I'm adding additional values which are same processes can deliver or some new processes can come in, for example, now we are talking
about what we call segmented values.
Values which are appropriate to a given segment of the population.
Which means values appropriate for women versus men, for this ethnic group versus that ethnic group, whatever.
However, you define that values that you can create for emerging economies was as advanced companies.
The last stage of value creation is at the individual level.
For example, in the user value, performance is the minimum functional value.
The segmented would be what we call a social value.
I want to belong or I belong to a given group.
Does this product fit into the groups reference point?
But ultimately, personal value is emotional value.
How does the product tie to my inner needs, my spirituality,
that's what we are researching right now?
Same thing on the price value, while the affordability price is the main one.
But then you have some survey, credit worthiness, which says that is not the price I pay or the money I have, but I have a balance sheet as a customer and my balance sheet says that I can use my balance sheet as my collateral, so you can loan me money.
Which is how credit card companies assessed your future income, your high net-worth, high net-worth individuals.
You know what we did in the business market is done in Boston Market.
The last place obviously is in fact, what we call individual financing, negotiated prices for affordability.
I can get negotiate the price with you.
Simply say your price to you is different than the price next consumer, for example, as airlines have done pretty much, I mean, two passengers sitting next to each other.
I have paid enormously different prices, or sitting in different clusters, they are paid enormous different prices or basically the same transport mode, which is functional value.
How do you create the supply side?
Same thing on the service side.
While service value, which is access and convenience, is great.
But then how do I create more and more personalization of the service?
Which is bedside manners, as I mentioned earlier in presentation, that's really what we do.
You know, pretty much to go from the universal values to segment values, to personal values, and that's how we are creating more. 
But right now, my knowledge so far is only limited to this is what I've researched so far and this is what I know.
But I think we can add more knowledge as we go forward. 

INTERVIEW 3

You seem to emphasize process as a way of creating value for customers.
I thought most companies develop marketing programs to create value for customers.
Any comment?
>> Marketing programs are not absolute, I think they're fine. 
However, if you look at all of the evidence and I have a book coming out by the way, how to reform marketing.
There's a biggest issue with marketing today is that the same dollars we're spending in marketing dollars are not going as far anymore, despite the cost of marketing dollars coming down.
So they are not as efficient as they used to be, and they're definitely not as effective as they used to be.
In fact, in a conference that my colleague and I held, on does marketing need to reform.
We found fascinating young killer which is one of the market research companies have done a customer sentiment, and they basically have a very low opinion, low image, of marketing.
Not only that, customers have become resistant to marketing, it's like one of those super bugs, you create some antibiotic, right?
And it becomes even more resistant to the drug kind of a thing.
So customers have become so jaded with marketing programs, that they become cynical almost, by the way, worst thing they hate.
There's another colleague of mine at the same conference who showed the data, that the rating of the doctor as a good profession is about 80%,
I think that way, professor like me is about 70%.
Marketing is only 20%, salesmanship or selling is like 4%, telemarketer is the worst at the bottom of the pit.
You know, kind of a thing interestingly nobody wants to be a telemarketer you see.
And telemarketer could be a noble profession actually because you can, if you serve the society.
The two-three things worst people find in my own study, I did a study of image of marketing also on about maybe 5, 600 consumers.
And we found very interestingly the worst thing they hate is telemarketing.
Second worst thing the hate in fact is email spam, they just hate it now.
As more and more we become computerized and laptop is our personal gadget, more they're irritated with spam, by large, right?
But they do like super bowl commercials, they do like free samples.
So all of the programs, the more we have bombarded the customers with more commercials, more advertising, more intrusive we have become.
Customer is becoming more cynical, more resistant, and marketing dollars are not going as well.
So the idea therefore is that maybe marketing programs, where we shifted the dollars from this program to that, like we shifted the dollars from advertising to sales promotions, for example.
Today we spend more money on sales promotions than in advertising, for example.
Now the idea is that maybe we need to take some of the dollars out of the programs, marketing programs, and put it into process improvement by and large.
And that's the fundamental change that I see as to why more and more companies are going for process driven approach to customer value creation by and large.
>> Jack, thank you very much again for a wonderful presentation, and we'll see you next time.
>> Thank you.



COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE THROUGH CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

jagsheth.com/relationship-marketing/competitive-advantages-through-customer-satisfaction/ 
By Jagdish Sheth January 1, 2001 

Customer Satisfaction can provide you with major competitive advantages, which can directly lead to increase in profitability and growth. They are: Repeat buying which will reduce cost of doing business; your products command higher prices leading to higher profits; gaining financial and moral support from satisfied customer in times of corporate crisis; word of mouth publicity from satisfied customers provides new market opportunities; satisfied customers buy other products and services; etc. Using real life examples the author illustrates these advantages. 
Introduction 

My own business experiences have led me to believe that the twin strategies of business success are: Employee Satisfaction and Customer Satisfaction. Productivity of corporate resources including people, money and machinery in all aspects of business operations ranging from research and development, manufacturing and operations, to sales and services depend on how employees and customers feel about the business. 

I have also observed that in the early stages of a companys life cycle, its success depends heavily on employees and their soldier-like devotion and hard work. You see this in all startup businesses whether it is a retail restaurant, biogenetics or specialty chemicals or a high tech electronics company. We have all read and heard stories of successful entrepreneurs who succeeded against all odds because of extraordinary efforts by themselves and their employees. 

Selecting the right employees, motivating them correctly, and rewarding them handsomely for their hard work becomes extremely important in the early stages of a companys life cycle. In the process, the company begins to be driven by its employees and internal operations and forgets that you also need satisfied customers to succeed in their business. 

Furthermore, as business grows, so does its bureaucratic structure, which further isolates the company from its customers. Indeed, it is not uncommon for the companys employees and procedures to feel that the customer is a bloody nuisance, who refuses to go along with their sales forecasts, who has the audacity to criticize and complain, and who wants to change them to suit his requirements 

Thus, when business grows and the company reaches the maturity stage of its life cycle, it is common to find satisfied employees but dissatisfied customers. Smart management, therefore, must focus on the external world of customers and their needs in addition to the internal world of employees and their operations. It must realize that the company now depends much more on its customers and not the other way around; that customers have other choices: and that customers are both technically sophisticated and financially capable to produce products and services rather than buy them from anyone in the market place. 

Unless the company is willing to reorient its people and reorganize its operations to be customer driven, excellence in R&D, manufacturing, and marketing are unable to stop decline in market share, corporate growth and business profitability. It is not a question of doing it right, it is a question of doing the right thing! Furthermore, it doesnt matter whether you are a big company or a small company, market leader or a niche player. Nor does it matter whether you are in agriculture, chemicals, consumer electronics, automobiles, financial services, health care or telecommunications. Lack of customer focus, especially at the maturity stage of the life cycle, creates a significant negative impact on the companys profits and growth performance. 

And once you start losing profits, growth and market share, you also lose employee confidence, morale and productivity. Ultimately, excellent employees start to leave the company resulting in employee dissatisfaction. In other words, employee satisfaction also depends on customer satisfaction. 

A number of excellent companies have recently learned this lesson the hard way. Fortunately, they were able to turn the comer before it was too late. Perhaps the best example is Ford Motor Company. It was losing significant market share, incurred record losses and was stagnant in its growth. However, what it had was strong employee loyalty. Before it became too late, they woke up and instituted changes in both corporate culture and operational structure to be customer driven. In less than ten years, the company has scored successive major new product victories across its product line and earned record profits. This includes Escort (small car), Thunderbird (personal car), Taurus (mid-size car), and more recently Lincoln Continental (luxury big car) as well as Probe (sporty car). 

Similarly, after three to four years of flat sales and fluctuating profits, IBM has regained its leadership in the personal computer business as well as in the data processing business by refocusing on the customers. 

Finally, AT&T and its divested Regional Holding Companies have survived the largest industry restructuring by the government because of their customer orientation even in a monopoly situation. 

In this paper, I will discuss at least six major competitive advantages a company can gain through customer satisfaction. All of them contribute positively toward the dual financial objectives of profits and growth. 

Figure 1 summarizes these six competitive advantages which contribute toward the corporate bottom line. A companys profit objectives are attained by the following three competitive advantages: 
(1) economy of sale through lower cost of doing repeat business; 
(2) higher prices commanded through differentiation; and 
(3) protection from satisfied customers in a crisis situation. Similarly, a companys growth objectives are attained by the other three competitive advantages; 
(4) product diversification growth through one stop shopping; 
(5) new market growth by word of mouth; and 
(6) new product development through lead users. 

Lets now discuss each competitive advantage in some depth. The first three competitive advantages are directly relevant for profit improvement. The last three are directly relevant for growth improvement. 
l. Repeat Buying Results in Lower Costs 

In a mature market, perhaps the best competitive advantage a company can maintain is through retaining its customers since as much as 90 to 95 percent of total business comes from existing r m customers. Competitive strategies for retaining existing customers tend to be less costly than those for gaining new customers, especially in mature markets with entrenched competitors. We all know that with repeat purchase, the Cost of doing business with satisfied customers goes down. However, what we often do not realize is that it goes down exponentially with a very sharp decline in costs in the early stages of repeat buying as demonstrated in Figure 2. 

Underlying this simple concept are some powerful implications. 

First, it demonstrates that the economy of scale advantages in manufacturing operations attained through volume and worker experience are equally appropriate concepts and consequences in the sales and service environment. In other words, productivity of marketing-related activities goes up significantly with repeat buying by satisfied customers. 

And this is likely to become increasingly more important in the near future as we minimize manufacturing costs through just-in-time, quality assurance, and flexible manufacturing; and as we minimize management overheads through downsizing, office automation and reorganization. As both the manufacturing and management costs come down over time, marketing costs as a percent of total costs tend to rise. For example, it is estimated that manufacturing costs in the electronics industry are under 25 percent, management costs under 20 percent, and, therefore. as much as 55 percent of total costs in business are housed in sales, service and value add activities. Therefore, the next challenge of eliminating or minimizing business costs is likely to be in marketing. And the best way to lower costs is to increase satisfied customer base. 

Second, we all know that dissatisfied customers increase the cost of sale. They slow down in their payments, elevate complaints to higher level management, and even engage their legal departments to fulfill their expectations. And. If the customers engage their legal departments, we must also engage our legal department, resulting in cost escalation. 

It is estimated that one dissatisfied customer takes the profitability out of five satisfied customers. Unfortunately, this is hidden and dispersed throughout the organization, and therefore, not notices by top management. 

Third, it is impossible to satisfy all customers. Some customers have very unique requirements; their locations are too remote to serve them properly, and their user environments may not be conducive to proper product use. It is, therefore, important to be extremely selective in your choice of customers. 

Unfortunately, customer selectivity as a concept is often contrary to sales incentives and the selling environment in general. We incentivize our sales force on revenues and not on profits. Therefore, they generate both good sales and bad sales. Someone in the company pays for the bad sales. 

Finally, it is better to prevent customer dissatisfaction than to correct it after it is created. This is comparable to the zero defect concept in quality assurance : A bad component is likely to create more problems after the product is assembled, and it is a lot cheaper to institute front end preventive measures such as the zero defect. It is, therefore, extremely important not to create wrong customer expectations whether it is through advertising, product packaging, or sales presentations. The higher the expectations we create with aggressive sales and marketing tactics. the higher the cost of correcting them if customer expectations are not met by their product experience. 
2. Customer Satisfaction Creates Price Advantage 

Unless there is a strong incentive, satisfied customers are unlikely to switch suppliers. After all, they have invested significant amount of time, effort and expertise in searching and selecting the right vendors in the first place There are minimal costs associated with switching vendors and in some cases they can be prohibitive. For example, once a customer is linked by computerized order entry systems it is very difficult for him to switch to another supplier. 

"Satisfied customers want the company to survive any crisis it experiences and they try to assist the company to ensure its survival. Customer satisfaction is probably the best source of insulation against corporate crises." 

Therefore, if a competitor wants to capture your satisfied customers, it must provide significantly better value than you either by lowering prices for the same level of performance or by increasing performance levels at the same price. The larger the satisfied customer base you own, the greater the amount of entry barriers for your competitor. This was the experience of Air Borne and Emery against Federal Express in the overnight delivery business. Similarly, this has been the experience of most of the long distance telephone companies such as MCI and U. S. Sprint as they try to capture AT&Ts customer base. And of course, very few mainframe computer companies have succeeded in taking away the IBM share. 

It is my estimate that a minimum of at least five percent price advantage is generated through customer satisfaction even in commodity businesses such as industrial chemicals, agricultural commodities, electronic components, and basic raw materials. Also, one would expect, at least theoretically, some maximum price advantages a company gains through satisfied customers. However, the maximum price advantages often tend to be outrageous, especially in highly specialized niche markets or for super premium products or services. In the majority of cases, my experiences have shown a maximum price advantage of around 30 percent in mass markets. 

We refer to this price advantage as Differentiation. It is created through excellence in one or more specific sources of customer satisfaction. Figure 3 identifies four sources of differentiation: product excellence, service excellence, brand reputation, and customer oriented culture. 

A very good example of price advantage toward product excellence is the 3M Company. It has several excellent products which have retained their performance superiority to command higher prices despite competition. These include the Scotch tapes, Post-it note pads, and 3M floppy disks. 

On the other hand, IBM has maintained its price advantage primarily through service excellence especially in the mainframe business. It is not unusual for a large corporate customer to continue to pay at least 20 to 25 percent higher prices for IBM system of hardware, peripherals and software even with the knowledge that competitive products are at par or superior in performance. 

A third source of price advantage through differentiation is brand reputation. In areas where quality varies significantly across competitors and the customer is unable to judge or control quality consistency, brand reputation becomes a significant price advantage. This is very true for McDonalds in the fast foods business, for Marriott in the hospitality business, and for Boeing in the commercial aircraft business. Brand reputation is even more critical in professional services such as health care (Mayo Clinic) consu1ling(McKinsey) and financial services (American Express). 

A fourth source of price advantage through differentiation come from customer oriented culture. There are several American and foreign companies where customer satisfaction is part of the corporate creed and practice at the highest level of management. Customers experience this philosophy and develop an image that says: this company cares. Examples include Nordstrom in the department stores business, Singapore Airlines in the airlines business and IBM in all of its businesses. 
3. Customer Satisfaction Limits Corporate Crisis 

A third major competitive advantage through customer satisfaction which is linked to profits is in the area of corporate crises. Satisfied customers want the company to survive any crisis it experiences and they try to assist the company to ensure its survival. Customer satisfaction is probably the best source insulation against corporate crises. 

A company encounters crises from several sources, some external and others internal. Figure 4 identifies four major sources of crises which are directly relevant to customer satisfaction. 


The first and probably the most relevant source of crisis is product tampering. Unfortunately, product tampering either at the factory or in the retail environment is becoming increasingly too common. A strong customer loyalty slows down what would otherwise be a precipitous decline in sales and a permanent loss of market share. This was clearly demonstrated to Johnson & Johnson when someone tampered with their Tylenol brand of analgesics. Not onIy was the company insulated by its loyal customers (patients, doctors, hospitals) in the short run, but it regained its market share after a short setback. A similar incident took place to SmithKline Beckman when its Contac brand of allergy products was tampered with in the marketplace. 

And these examples are not limited to drug or food products but also present in the electronics industry. Tampering with the software programs and planting viruses is also becoming increasingly too common. 

The second source of corporate crises relevant to customer satisfaction is unfair competition. Loyal customers do not like unfair and often unethical business practices of competitors against a company they really like. For example, many vendors who try to compete against IBM or AT&T with unfair marketing or business practices are exposed by their loyal customers. It is not uncommon for a loyal customer to send copies of highly sensitive marketing plans of a competitor to IBM or AT&T. 

Similarly, companies like McDonalds, Coco-Cola and Procter & Gamble are constant targets of rumors about their products. For example, not too long ago, it was rumored that McDonalds products contained spider webs, or that Coca-Cola is narcotic. Furthermore, often these companies are targets of social protests because of their high visibility. Loyal customers tend to ignore rumors and continue to patronize their products despite attempts to boycott them. 

A third source of corporate crises relevant to customer satisfaction is internal operational problems created by sabotage, shortages or breakdowns, Right now, there seems to be a worldwide shortage of 256 chips which are used in building microcomputers. Companies that depend on critical components are tolerated more by their loyal customers to the extent they can wait or postpone purchases. 

A fourth source of corporate crises relevant to customer satisfaction is industry restructuring either by government mandate or through industry consolidation. This is especially important in basic industries such as the oil industry or infrastructure industries such as telecommunications and airlines. The recent deregulation of the airlines industry has resulted in its massive restructuring. Airlines with strong customer loyalty have benefited from this whereas airlines with customer dissatisfaction have suffered. The best contrasting examples are Delta against Eastern Airlines and United against Continental Airlines. Similarly, the breakup of the Bell System by the government to create competition has succeeded only modestly especially in long distance and local exchange services. Despite a significant restructuring and government encouragement of competition, it seems that the Bell Operating Companies have retained their customer franchise as has AT&T. 
4. Satisfied Customers Generate New Customers 

The best way to grow business profitably is to gain new customers without significant investment of your product, marketing, and sales resources. This is possible through word of mouth communication. If you have satisfied customers they are more than willing to call or visit potential new customers. They are willing to put in their time and effort for several reasons. First, they want to share their appreciation for being treated well as customers. Second, it is in their self interest to drive out bad companies or inferior products from the market by promoting your products and your company. Finally, customers acquire market price if they concentrate their purchases from one or two vendors. This makes you more dependent on them and creates a balance of power between you and your customers. 

Word of mouth communication is a very powerful form of communication and influence. It is more credible, goes through less perceptual filters and can enhance the product better than any sales communication. Indeed, a slight negative word of mouth can more than offset any amount of sales and advertising effort. 

Research evidence shows that satisfied customers talk to three other customers. However, dissatisfied customers talk to seven other customers. Counting both positive and negative word of mouth communication suggests that one customer influences ten other customers. However, this average of the word of mouth communications goes up significantly more in all those purchase situations where the potential buyer perceives a high degree risk if he or she makes a wrong decision. In Figure 5, I have identified four areas of risk perceived by buyers. A product or service which has all four risk factors inherently present in it is, therefore, likely to totally depend on word of mouth communication. 

The first common risk in most purchases is economic risk. It is inherent in major capital expenditures, in rapidly changing technologies, and in products or services with significantly high operating costs. Examples include homes, automobiles, machinery, factory automation and office automation. 

The second area of high risk relates to products and services where it is difficult to deliver consistency and reliability. In other words, performance uncertainty is a common problem because of lack of standards, complexity of user interface, or because it is a radical innovation with no field experience. Example include drugs, biogenetics, software and most professional services. It is interesting to note, that service industries suffer more from this risk than product industries primarily due to lack of standards and consistency among providers of service. 

A third area of high risk situations is in those products and services where there is a potential to threaten personal safety or safety of material possessions. Some products or services are inherently more dangerous than others. Examples include chemicals, electricity, and nature expeditions. Product safety is a major concern in all advanced countries and in addition to strong Word of mouth, there are efforts to establish legal and regulatory guidelines across virtually all industries. 

The fourth area of risk is social risk. It refers to the risk of losing face, losing your job or losing the reputation of your department if you make a wrong choice. While there are obvious examples of social risks in personal care products and services, only recently have we recognized that social risk is significantly present in industrial buying behavior. It is often said that you dont get fired by buying IBM. Most MIS managers in a company hesitate to recommend a non-lBM solution because they fear that if any problems occur in the new computer system, everyone will blame him or her for making a wrong choice. His or her personal risk as well as the departments reputation and power are at stake. 

There are numerous examples even in mass markets where market leaders have created billion plus dollar business by word of mouth advertising. These include Nestle Company in chocolates and The Limited in womens fashions. In fact, until recently, most certified professional services such as law and medicine were discouraged from advertising and therefore they relied solely on referrals. 
5. Customer Satisfaction Encourages One Stop Shopping 

Satisfied customers not only generate growth of new business through word of mouth communication, they also buy other products and services from you. There are several reasons why customers prefer one stop shopping. First, it is more economical for the customer to place multiple orders with the same firm than to split the orders across several vendors. The customer gets volume discounts, favorable terms. better support service and more importantly, he saves significantly on procurement paperwork. Second, it is much more convenient for the customer. Procedures for ordering, delivery and payments are well known and routinized; supplier company people are familiar with all the tactical details related to his account; and there is a known person to call and place the order. This makes buying easy, convenient and probably faster. Finally, customers avoid the uncertainty of doing business with an unknown vendor. As suggested earlier, customers encounter major risks in their purchase decisions. One way to reduce the risk is to buy all products and services from reliable and trustworthy vendors. 

The one stop shopping preference by satisfied customers creates the competitive advantage of economy of scope. It enables the company to expand its product line and generate corporate growth without significant risk. For example, McDonalds has successfully broadened its product line from hamburgers to include salads, fish, chicken, and a full breakfast menu. It has virtually became a three meal place: It is reported that McDonalds is currently testing pizzas to add to its menu of meals. Similarly, IBM has successfully expanded its product line to offer a system solution including the CPU, peripherals, operating systems, software, customer training and financing. 

The fundamental concept underlying the one stop shopping is life cycle revenues (LCR). It is comparable to life cycle costing (LCC) concept popular in engineering and manufacturing. It represents the net present value of all products and services a satisfied customer is likely to buy from you over his life. For example, in retailing, the life cycle revenue from a household account can be as high as $500,000 over the life of that individual. Obviously, in industrial markets, the life cycle revenue of a corporate or government account is likely to be in the tens of millions of dollars. 

The life cycle revenue concept provides several interesting implications. First, it enhances respect even for small accounts. In other words, no customer is too small so long as we can meet his expectations satisfactorily. Second, there is a significant amount of downstream revenues from value added services. For example, once you sell machinery, you can also sell insurance, financing, maintenance and repair services. In fact, the principle of the razor and the razor blades is fully anchored to the life cycle revenue concept. 

Third, the customer puts his trust in the and, therefore, he expects comparable performance in value added services or other products he buys from you. Unfortunately, most companies are not equally good across products and very likely not at all between products and services. This seems to be a problem currently experienced by Sears. As Sears expands its business into financial, healthcare and household services markets, there is a growing concern whether it will be able to maintain customer satisfaction so ably delivered in such great products as Craftsman tools and Kenmore application. 

It seems that one stop shopping requires a high degree of consistency across diverse products and business units. This is often difficult to achieve across highly decentralized autonomous divisions. 
6. Customer Satisfaction Encourages Successful Innovations 

Satisfied customers are more open to sharing their product use experiences. They not only allow but encourage suppliers to visit their facilities, talk to their employees and, in general, encourage learning about what they do with your products and services. 

This Open door communication and exchange is extremely important for new product innovations. It allows your R&D organization to interface with the customer as they are developing new technologies. The customer input in the early stages of technology development has been recognised as one of the major reasons for the success of an innovation 

Indeed, in many industries, customers engineering departments take the lead in new product development often resulting in worldwide patents. However, the customer does not want to diversify from his business operations and passes on the new discovery or the new design to a preferred vendor. This has been found to be true in process technologies, in material substitutions, as well as in support services. 
Conclusions 

In this paper, I have identified six major competitive advantages gained through customer satisfaction. Three of them are directly relevant for improving profitability of your organization. They are: 

    Repeat buying reduces cost of doing business if the customer is satisfied. 

    You command higher prices than your competition which increases your margins and, therefore, profits. 

    Satisfied customers provide both financial and moral support when your company faces a corporate crisis. 

In addition, three additional competitive advantages through customer satisfaction are directly relevant for corporate growth opportunities. They are: 

    Word of mouth from satisfied customers provides new market opportunities at a      very low cost. You dont need to invest as much in creating new customers.      

    Satisfied customers buy other products and services by practicing one stop      shopping.This provides you with significant product diversification      opportunities and, therefore, economies of scope. 

    New product development becomes more productive as satisfied customers provide access to their facilities and people. Significant growth opportunities from new technologies are provided by leading users of your products and services. 

Now the rest of the story: An unhappy customer is a terrorist! He will hold you and your organization hostage if you do not meet his expectations. 